Description.Elvis Presley once said, "I have no use for bodyguards, but I have very specific use for two highly trained certified public accountants" (Source). Why? Everyone needs an accountant.
From celebs to large companies to wee commoners like us, accountants are always in high demand, and having job security is certainly advantageous. Accountants have a real way with numbers, as in they're not scared of them. Most accountant majors get employed right after college, even in a poor economy.
After college, a lot of accounting majors go on to get certified as a public accountant (or CPA, for those of you in the know). That way, they can work for private or public companies, offer financial advice to people, do taxes, or even become stockbrokers. The great thing about the accounting major is its practicality.
Not only do accounting majors have job security, but they're total tax pros, too. Sorry, H&R Block—your services aren't needed here—and around April, that's a big relief. However, with all the money an accountant makes, they might just hire someone to do their taxes anyway. After all, they know what stocks to buy, what investments to make. Pfft, let the plebes do the grunt work.
Advertising is a bigger part of your life than water. Okay, maybe not, but it's still a huge part of almost everything you do. Check out the ads on the side of your browser window the next time you're on Facebook. Don't forget TV commercials, billboards, t-shirt brands, personalized company pens, the sides of buses—ads are everywhere. Hey, even this sentence is an advertisement. People don't like to admit that they're being influenced by ads, but it seeps into your brain one way or another.
You'll learn how to influence people into making decisions based on pretty pictures and lovely words. You also won't have to worry too much about grad school, because only a tiny portion of people go on to get an additional degree. The business world can be cruel, but hopping into an ad firm and getting that crucial experience can be your best shot.
If you're worried about the business-y classes like Financial Operations or Economics 560, don't sweat it. You'll be taking a mixture of marketing and communications classes that teach you how to appeal to a wide audience. If you get good enough, you might even get to see your very own ad flashing in Times Square like a beacon. Sure, it would only be in that coveted spot for a second, but it'd still be there.
There are two kinds of people in the world. The first kind sees a new kind of bug, maybe a new kind of giant cockroach that flies and subsists entirely on the terror-tears of orphans. This kind of person, which we will hazard to say is the bulk of the population, will utter some variation of "Nope," calmly shut the door on the creature, and then burn the structure down.
The other kind of person will see the giant, orphan-tear-drinking cockroach and think it makes for the best day ever.
You probably already know which group you fit into. If you've ever gleefully collected the creepy-crawlies of the world or played with centipedes the way most kids play with Transformers, then you might be ready to study entomology.