collaboration of artists, scholars and writers in examining relationships between academic and artistic knowledge about the world and human experience
world and human existence, cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora
study abroad in Africa, the Caribbean and/or Latin America
language competency in Africa and the diaspora
evolution of artistic, cultural, intellectual and political traditions of the peoples and cultures in Africa and the African diaspora
slavery, colonialism, and conceptions of race and practices of racism, shaped the modern world
theories and methodologies of Africana Studies, interdisciplinary scholarship
critical thinking and global perspectives
Brown alumni with a degree in Africana Studies have gone on to careers in community organizing, consulting, economic development, education, finance, law, marketing, medicine, politics, public health, and public policy
Churchill House, artistic, historical, literary, and theoretical expressions of the various cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora
faculty have received many prestigious honors and awards for their innovative scholarship and contributions to the academy and public life, Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, the Gish Award, the Guggenheim Fellowship, the MacArthur Fellowship, and the Man Booker International Prize
class, gender, nation, race, and sexuality
Continuing National and Global Demonstrations against the Slaying of George Floyd, Institutional Racism and Police Brutality
National Council of Black Studies
Rites and Reason Theatre, a forum for arts and ideas, literary arts, Africana literature and literary criticism
partnership with the University of Cape Town, South Africa and the University of West Indies, Mona, Jamaica
Research Opportunities
Annenberg Institute for School Reform
Brown International Advanced Research Institutes 
Center for Caribbean and Latin American Studies
Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights
Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America
Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice.
Cogut Center for the Humanities, Creative Arts Council.
John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage.
Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World.
Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women.
Taubman Center for Public Policy and American Institutions.
Watson Institute for International Studies.
Brown University Library provide numerous opportunities for original research in Africana Studies. The John Hay Library has the Harris Collection on American Poetry, Popular Entertainment and Plays; the McClellan Lincoln Collection; and the Metcalf Collection of Pamphlets. The John Carter Brown Library has one of the best collections in this hemisphere of works published in and about the New World before the nineteenth century.
Microfilm collections include the FBI files on Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X, as well as the papers of W. E. B. Du Bois, Alexander Crummell, and Carter G. Woodson.
The C.L.R. James Journal is the official journal of the Caribbean Philosophical Association and is available online through the Philosophy Documentation Center
National Black Theatre in Harlem.
collaboration between the National Black Theatre and the Department of Africana Studies' Rites and Reason Theatre.
To understand the evolution of artistic, cultural, intellectual, and political traditions of Africa and the Diaspora.

To gain a deeper understanding of how and in what ways slavery, colonialism, and conceptions of race have shaped the modern world.

To acquire competency in the theories, epistemologies, and methodologies of the Africana Studies discipline and broader interdisciplinary scholarship.

To prepare students to assume roles as skilled and informed citizens, scholars, and career professionals informed by critical thinking and global perspectives.

Africana Studies presents a broad range of courses that engage with the histories, ideas, social and political life of Africa and the African Diaspora, including literature, the arts, cultural studies, history, politics, philosophy, feminism, and the legacy of scientific racism. This array of topics serves our concentrators (and others who take our classes) as they build an intellectual foundation of critical thinking and analysis that supports them in their academic, professional, and personal lives.

Independent Reading and Research
Section numbers vary by instructor. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course.
AFRI 1970 S03
Primary Instructor
Bogues
Schedule Code
I: Independent Study/Research
[Show 12 additional sections]
Graduate Level Independent Reading and Research
A program of intensive reading and research. Section numbers may vary by instructor. Please check Banner for the correct section number and CRN to use when registering for this course.
AFRI 2980 S01
Primary Instructor
Bogues
Schedule Code
I: Independent Study/Research
[Show 9 additional sections]
Preliminary Examination Preparation
For graduate students who have met the tuition requirement and are paying the registration fee to continue active enrollment while preparing for a preliminary examination.
AFRI 2970 S01
Schedule Code
E: Graduate Thesis Prep
Thesis Preparation
For graduate students who have met the residency requirement and are continuing research on a full time basis.
AFRI 2990 S01
Schedule Code
E: Graduate Thesis Prep
Black Lavender: Black Gay/Lesbian Plays/Dramatic Constructions in the American Theatre
Study of plays with African-American LGBTQ+ content, primarily manuscripts, with a focus on thesis paper development. Creative writing option. Participation in the Black Lavender Experience required. Cross-listed with TAPS. Gender and Sexuality.
AFRI 0990 S01
Primary Instructor
Terry-Morgan
Black Freedom Struggle Since 1945
Lecture course that examines the extended history of the mass civil rights movement in the U.S. Starting at World War II, we consider the roles of the courts, the federal and state governments, organizations, local communities, individuals and various activist strategies in the ongoing struggle for African American equality, focusing on African American agency, particularly in the South, but also in Boston, Mass. Sources include photographs, documentaries, movies, letters, speeches, autobiographies, and secondary readings. Requirements: Weekly readings, documentary viewings, 4 short papers, 2 exams.
AFRI 1090 S01
As of now, this class will hold Tuesdays as a lecture day and Thursday as a discussion day. On discussion days depending on the number of on campus students we will meet in person and in zoom simultaneously. In addition to a live lecture there will be an additional taped lecture to view before the discussion and all readings will be due by discussion day.
Primary Instructor
Hamlin
Afro-Caribbean Philosophy
An introduction to the field of Afro-Caribbean philosophy. The first half focuses on the history of the field, identifying its African background and surveying some of its major schools, such as the Afro-Christians, the poeticists, the historicists, and existentialists. The second half consists of a more intensive comparative focus on the ontologies and epistemologies of two of these schools.
AFRI 1150 S01
Primary Instructor
Henry
Africana Studies: Knowledge, Texts and Methodology
This course will explore the issues of Africana Studies as a discipline by engaging in a series of critical readings of the central texts, which laid the protocols of the discipline. The course will also raise issues of knowledge production and methodologies. This course is a senior capstone seminar. Open to all senior Africana Studies concentrators; others by instructor permission only. Enrollment limited to 25.
AFRI 1360 S01
Primary Instructor
Meeks
Contesting the Carceral State
This course introduces students to the study of crime and justice through Black, feminist, queer and prison abolitionist frameworks, with a particular focus on narratives by people of African descent in the U.S. since 1965.
AFRI 1030 S01
Primary Instructor
Biggs
Afro-pessimism and Its Kin
As an intellectual project, Afro-pessimism has developed an interpretation of the unique position of black people within a world they say the transatlantic slave trade and anti-black racial solidarity has made. Through close reading, this seminar will begin by critically engaging the core texts of Afro-pessimism, move on to contextualize its central claims about black ontology, social death, civil society, and the world within its canon (e.g. Saidiya Hartman, Orlando Patterson, Hortense Spillers and so on) and critically engage an ever-expanding scholarship that takes up, expands, and contests the Afro-pessimist project (e.g. Fred Moten, Christina Sharpe and so on).
AFRI 2020 S01
All students interested in registering for the course should attend the first day of class and override codes to register for the class will be given once the class roster is finalized.
Primary Instructor
LeSure
Theorizing Racism
Since the eruption of Black Lives Matter protest across the United States in response to the murder of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police, the acknowledgement and denunciation of systemic racism in mainstream discourse has significantly increased. As more and more people agree that racism is a contemporary problem, an old question emerges: What do people mean when they say “racism”? This lecture course situates mainstream discourse about racism within racism’s contentious conceptual history, critically engages a dynamic interdisciplinary debate about the meaning of racism, and imagines what a it would take to achieve a world without racism.
AFRI 0800 S01
Primary Instructor
LeSure
Black Protest Music
This courses surveys African American protest music through research and performance. At every point in American history, African Americans have crafted music to speak out against racial injustices. This course highlights the music of three specific moments in African American history: 1) spirituals of the enslaved; 2) music of the classical phase of the Civil Rights movement; and 3) burgeoning protest music of the Black Lives Matter (BLM) movement. Students study the sociocultural contexts informing the performances of the Fisk Jubilee Singers, Mahalia Jackson, Nina Simone, Kendrick Lamar, and Beyoncé, among others. Students gain critical analytical skills for engaging music as cultural production, commodity, and vehicle of activism. Ultimately, this course equips students to situate BLM music within the longer history of African American musical activism, and it provides space for students to perform and compose black protest music.
AFRI 1230 S01
This course is part reading/research and part performance. Despite the hybrid designation, this course is taught fully online. You should expect that all or some portion of the regular Wednesday class time will be used for the purpose of class meeting via Zoom. Course overrides will be given in the first week of class after students have a chance to attend the first class and complete a survey explaining why they want to take the course and how they could contribute. The survey will be available during the first class. You must complete the survey to obtain a course override.
Primary Instructor
Barron
Courses of Interest to Concentrators in Africana Studies
The following courses may be taken for concentration credit. Please see the sponsoring department for the time and location of each course.

American Studies
AMST 2220T Slavery in the Recent American Imagination
Music
MUSC 1939 Social Justice and the Musical Afrofuture
Religious Studies
RELS 0085B Blues People:Topics in African American Religion and Culture
AFRI XLIST 0
Africana Studies Junior Seminar
This junior seminar course is designed to support students’ growth as academic writers and will prepare them to better complete their culminating senior thesis projects. While specifically geared towards Africana Studies concentrators, the class is open to any undergraduate student who has successfully completed AFRI 0090: An Introduction to Africana Studies and at least four semesters of coursework overall towards the Bachelor’s degree. Course materials will delve deeply into the history, spaces, peoples and cultures of the African Diaspora, exploring a selection of critical writings, performance pieces, fiction and non-fiction works by leading scholars and artists.
AFRI 1330 S01
Primary Instructor
Biggs
Archiving the African Diaspora: The Life and Works of Anani Dzidzienyo
This course will allow students to work on archiving and preserving the materials of Professor Anani Dzidzienyo, ultimately creating a capsule collection that can be maintained within the university. More details to follow.
AFRI 1941 S01
The course will explore the life and scholarship of the late Brown University Africana Studies professor Anani Dzidzienyo (1941-2020). In addition to extensive transnational research, a significant part of his scholarly life involved teaching and mentoring undergraduate students for over forty years, which radically shaped the field of African and African Diaspora Studies. Professor Dzidzienyo left us a significant collection of books and original documents which will be donated to the Brown University and Tougaloo College libraries. Under the supervision of professional librarians, students will be tasked with organizing these materials for donation, providing them with practical knowledge on how to organize archives and prepare materials for future research scholars. We will also create a digital curriculum vitae of Professor Dzidzienyo’s published writings and a visual biography that compiles photos and videos from his life. Some of this classwork will be shared in the international memorial being held at Brown in the late Spring.
Primary Instructor
Perry
Monuments, Counter-Monuments, and the Representation of the Slave Past
This course is concerned with the memorialization and representation of the slave past through monumental form in the Atlantic world. Beginning with a range of theoretical considerations of the concepts of monument and counter-monument, we engage the writings of Ana-Lucia Araujo, Stephen M. Best, Huey Copeland, Cheryl Finlay, Saidiya Hartmann, Katherine McKittrick, Sowande’ M. Mustakeem, Christina Sharpe, Marita Sturken, Lisa Woolfork, James Young, and others. Using these various approaches and theories, we examine monuments located in a range of countries including Benin, Ghana, Senegal, England, France, the Netherlands, Brazil, Haiti, Jamaica, Barbados, Guadeloupe, and the United States.
The Department of Africana Studies' Rites and Reason Theatre is a research and developmental theatre dedicated to giving expression to the diverse cultures and traditions of continental and diasporic Africans and the vast Africana experience.

Rites and Reason's unique Research-to-Performance Method (RPM) is a systematic process that organizes teams of artists, scholars and researchers in the scholarly and creative development of new theatrical performances. RPM teams engage in direct dialogue with the community throughout the developmental process from ideas to readings to workshops to mainstage productions.

The Rites and Reason method includes the development of innovative theatrical forms rooted in Africana cultural traditions and expressions. Within Africana cultural traditions art is a creative manifestation of thought and culture. As such, Rites and Reason is a critical space for artists, writers, and scholars to explore and engage Africana intellectual and cultural traditions, translating them into creative theatrical and expressive forms.
The Research-to-Performance Method (RPM) is Rites and Reason's signature method. RPM teams consisting of scholars, writers and community persons collaborate in creating and developing significant new works. A magical and wonderful thing happens when scholars become artists and artists become scholars within the RPM process.
George Houston Bass (1938-1990), Founder and Artistic Director of Rites and Reason Theatre was educated at Fisk University, New York University, and Yale University. From 1973 until his death, he was Professor of Theatre Arts and Afro-American Studies at Brown University.

Professor Bass worked with Professor Rhett S. Jones, a historian and the Research Director for Rites and Reason Theatre, to express the cultural, social and ideological concerns of the various peoples and cultures of the African Diaspora. He also worked with producer and managing director Karen Allen Baxter to codify the methods and the development of plays at Rites and Reason.

Bass is the author of numerous plays, including Black Masque, Malacoff Blue, and De Day of No 'Mo. He has worked as a director throughout the country. Brer Rabbit Whole was first produced at Fisk University, and a revised version was produced by Rites & Reason in 1985. Bass' Black Masque was part of Rites & Reason's 25th Anniversary Season. Professor Bass was also the editor of The Langston Hughes Review, the official organ of the Langston Hughes Society.

Bass's work has been acknowledged by the American Society of Cinematologists winning the Rosenthal Award in 1964 and the Plaque of the Lion of St. Marc at the 1967 Venice Film Festival. Professor Bass also received a John Hay Whitney Fellowship, a John Golden Fellowship from the Yale University School of Drama, a Harlem Cultural Council Grant, a Howard Foundation Fellowship, and a Fulbright Research Grant.
George Houston Bass (notably his prologue and epilogue forMule Bone by Langston Hughes and Zora Neale Hurston, produced on Broadway by the Lincoln Center)
Adrienne Kennedy
Ruby Dee
Ossie Davis
Ntozake Shange
Ifa Bayeza
Je Franklin
Elmo Terry-Morgan ’74
Loni Berry ’76
Shanga Parker ’88
Sherley Anne Williams
Gayl Jones
Melvin Dixon
Debbie Breevort Bailey
Bridget Carpenter
Dominic Taylor
Keli Garrett
Edwidge Danticat
The Ford Foundation
The National Endowment for the Arts
The National Endowment for the Humanities
The Nellie Mae Foundation
The Rhode Island Foundation
The Rhode Island State Council on the Arts
The Rockefeller Foundation
A collaboration between The Department of Africana Studies/Rites and Reason Theatre and The Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA)
he Department of Africana Studies/Rites and Reason Theatre invites you to participate in a special Black Lavender Experience. From Friday, April 10th through Thursday, April 16th, the event dives into the archive to present performances, keynotes, and conversations for reflection today. Since 2009, Black Lavender projects have investigated and presented the works of premier artists, and new works written and performed by Brown University students and Tougaloo College (Jackson, Mississippi) students.
2018 is the 50th anniversary of important and pivotal moments in history. 
50 Years Since 68 is a year-long initiative that reflects on the meaning and significance of that remarkable year and examines the state of the world a half-century later. For Africana Studies at Brown University, it is also 50 years since the 1968 Walkout of black students and their allies that protested the small number of black faculty and the absence of a black studies curriculum. The University's response led first to the formation of Rites and Reason Theatre in 1969 and then the Afro-American Studies Program, which eventually became today's Department of Africana Studies/Rites and Reason Theatre.

