School Name: Brown
Department: Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World
Major: Archaeology and the Ancient World


The Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World is dedicated to the academic study and public promotion of the archaeology and art of the ancient Mediterranean, Egypt, and the Near East (the latter broadly construed as extending from Anatolia and the Levant to the Caucasus); our principal research interests S'Urachi Day of Archaeology 2015lie in the complex societies of the pre-modern era.

Although the core efforts of the Joukowsky Institute are archaeological in nature and are located within this broadly defined zone, close ties with all individuals interested in the ancient world, and with archaeologists of all parts of the globe, are welcome and actively encouraged. Joukowsky Institute faculty and students are from a wide range of countries and backgrounds -- and Brown University's fieldwork and research in archaeology and the ancient world reflectsBerenfeld and Alcock at Petra and builds on that multiplicity of perspectives.

Established in 2004 ("Brown establishes Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World"), the Joukowsky Institute incorporates and amplifies the activities of Brown’s former Center for Old World Archaeology and Art. Susan E. Alcock became the Institute's first Director in January 2006, and was succeeded by Peter van Dommelen in July 2015.

The goal of the Institute is to foster an interdisciplinary community of interest in the archaeology of the ancient world, and in the discipline of archaeology more generally. Its mandate is to promote research, fieldwork, teaching, and public outreach, with the Institute’s associated faculty, students, and facilities serving as a hub for this activity.

Activities and Outreach
The undergraduate and graduate programs in Archaeology and the Ancient World Community Archaeology Day (Niyo and Rose)are based in the Joukowsky Institute, as are many of Brown University's archaeology courses. An active program of scholarly and public lectures, conferences, and workshops is in place, offering frequent events for the Brown University community, as well as interested members of our broader, off-campus communities.  The Joukowsky Institute regularly hosts visiting students and faculty members, whose backgrounds, perspectives, experiences, and skills enhance our intellectual and professional breadth and connections, as well as our social and cultural vitality. Our Postdoctoral Fellowship program, in particular, has become known internationally for providing an intellectual home for some of archaeology's most thoughtful and innovative young scholars.

A core aspect of the Joukowsky Institute's mission is outreach to the ProvidenceThink Like an Archaeologist and Rhode Island communities, in which we are based. The Institute is one of the founders of Think Like an Archaeologist, a program for 6th grade students in the Providence Public Schools, developed collaboration with RISD Museum at the Rhode Island School of Design and Brown University’s Haffenreffer Museum of Anthropology.

The Joukowsky Institute also runs an active field project, The Archaeology of College Hill, which introduces undergraduate students to archaeological excavation at sites in the immediate vicinity of Brown University. Each October, the Institute holds a Community Archaeology Day, in conjunction with the Archaeological Institute of America's International Archaeology Day and Brown University's Family Weekend. We sponsor a range of family-friendly activities for the general public, in our building and on-site at The Archaeology of College Hill's excavation.

The undergraduate concentration in Archaeology and the Ancient World provides students with an opportunity to explore the multi-faceted discipline of archaeology, and encourages an interdisciplinary approach to engaging with the ancient world. While the core focus of Archaeology and the Ancient World at Brown University is archaeology and art of the ancient Mediterranean, Egypt, and the Near East, this concentration encourages students to reach beyond this geographic area, to engage with Brown’s many strengths in history, epigraphy, art, ethics, engineering, religious studies, and the sciences – to name just a few.

The concentration, with its three distinct but overlapping tracks, is intended to allow students flexibility in structuring their own path through this diverse field of study. All three tracks begin with the same foundation. Students are then expected to experiment with and define their own areas of specialty, establishing expertise in topics such as cultural heritage, archaeological theory, or materials analysis, or in particular regions or time periods.  The concentration is also designed to allow students to build progressively upon what they have learned, moving from introductory courses to upper-level seminars.  

It is expected that, in completing the requirements for this concentration, students will incorporate courses that offer new perspectives on the complex dynamics of social inequity, exclusion, and difference, and which encourage engagement with the community – both by enrolling in classes designated as Diverse Perspectives in Liberal Learning (DPLL) and through non-DPLL classes that explore similar themes.  Research opportunities, through summer fieldwork, internships, museum experience, or independent study projects, are strongly encouraged.

Within this concentration, the three tracks are:

Archaeology and the Ancient World: the most flexible of the concentration tracks, allowing students to explore any region or time period, and to develop their own areas of focus, such as museum studies, ethics and politics of the past, engineering and materials analysis, cultural heritage, or environmental studies.

Classical Archaeology: for those interested chiefly in the ‘classic’ civilizations of the Mediterranean (especially Greece and Rome), as well as for those interested in both earlier (prehistoric) and later (medieval) periods in that geographic region.

Egyptian and Near Eastern Archaeology: for those interested chiefly in the cultures of Egypt and the ancient ‘Near East’ – Anatolia, the Levant, Mesopotamia – from prehistoric through Islamic times.
