School Name: Brown
Department: African Studies
Major: African Studies


collaboration of artists, scholars and writers in examining relationships between academic and artistic knowledge about the world and human experience
world and human existence, cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora
study abroad in Africa, the Caribbean and/or Latin America
language competency in Africa and the diaspora
evolution of artistic, cultural, intellectual and political traditions of the peoples and cultures in Africa and the African diaspora
slavery, colonialism, and conceptions of race and practices of racism, shaped the modern world
theories and methodologies of Africana Studies, interdisciplinary scholarship
critical thinking and global perspectives
Brown alumni with a degree in Africana Studies have gone on to careers in community organizing, consulting, economic development, education, finance, law, marketing, medicine, politics, public health, and public policy
Churchill House, artistic, historical, literary, and theoretical expressions of the various cultures of Africa and the African Diaspora
faculty have received many prestigious honors and awards for their innovative scholarship and contributions to the academy and public life, Anisfield-Wolf Book Award, the Gish Award, the Guggenheim Fellowship, the MacArthur Fellowship, and the Man Booker International Prize
class, gender, nation, race, and sexuality
Continuing National and Global Demonstrations against the Slaying of George Floyd, Institutional Racism and Police Brutality
National Council of Black Studies
Rites and Reason Theatre, a forum for arts and ideas, literary arts, Africana literature and literary criticism
partnership with the University of Cape Town, South Africa and the University of West Indies, Mona, Jamaica
Research Opportunities
Annenberg Institute for School Reform
Brown International Advanced Research Institutes 
Center for Caribbean and Latin American Studies
Center for Prisoner Health and Human Rights
Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America
Center for the Study of Slavery and Justice.
Cogut Center for the Humanities, Creative Arts Council.
John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage.
Joukowsky Institute for Archaeology and the Ancient World.
Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women.
Taubman Center for Public Policy and American Institutions.
Watson Institute for International Studies.
Brown University Library provide numerous opportunities for original research in Africana Studies. The John Hay Library has the Harris Collection on American Poetry, Popular Entertainment and Plays; the McClellan Lincoln Collection; and the Metcalf Collection of Pamphlets. The John Carter Brown Library has one of the best collections in this hemisphere of works published in and about the New World before the nineteenth century.
Microfilm collections include the FBI files on Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X, as well as the papers of W. E. B. Du Bois, Alexander Crummell, and Carter G. Woodson.
The C.L.R. James Journal is the official journal of the Caribbean Philosophical Association and is available online through the Philosophy Documentation Center
National Black Theatre in Harlem.
collaboration between the National Black Theatre and the Department of Africana Studies' Rites and Reason Theatre.