American Studies is an interdisciplinary concentration that is innovative and creative, offering new answers to complex questions about American society, cultures, and experiences. 

Exciting new directions build on our interests in gender, sexuality, race and ethnicity. Publicly-engaged scholarship in local and global contexts and the digital humanities play increasingly important roles in the production and dissemination knowledge by American Studies faculty and students.  Students learn to analyze social structures and practices of identity, space and place, and the production and consumption of culture.

American Studies concentrators take foundational courses within the department and often use courses around the University to round out their interdisciplinary look at the United States.  American Studies maintains strong ties to programs in Africana Studies, Ethnic Studies, Gender and Sexuality, Urban Studies and, most recently, the Masters program in Public Humanities.

The specific skills that concentrators will use and develop in order to achieve these intellectual goals articulated by these themes and approaches are:

Reading texts, objects and spaces critically and historically
Producing scholarship and creative work in different forms ranging from the traditional research paper to exhibitions to new media
Participating in forms of publicly publicly-engaged scholarship
Creating an ePortfolio that serves as part of the capstone experience

All are marked by the continuing interest of our faculty and students in public humanities and public policy, digital scholarship, the study of race and ethnicity, popular culture, and new avenues in transnational research, exploring the role of the United States in the world and the importance of the world in the United States.

American Studies at Brown is concerned with four broad themes:

Social Structures and the Practices of Identity
Space and Place
Production and Consumption of Culture
Science, Technology, and Everyday Life

 American Studies at Brown emphasizes four intersecting approaches that are critical tools for understanding these themes:

Cultural and Social Analysis
Global/International Contextulization
New Media Understandings
Publicly Engaged Scholarship

Social Structures and the Practices of Identity: How do communities and individuals come to define themselves, and how do others define them, in terms of, among other categories, nation, region, class, race, ethnicity, gender, sex, religion, age and sexuality? How do organizations and institutions function socially and culturally? What are the roles of social movements, economic structures, politics and government?

Space and Place: How is space organized, and how do people make place? This includes the study of natural and built environments; local, regional, national and transnational communities; and international and inter-regional flows of people, goods, and ideas.

Production and Consumption of Culture: How do people represent their experiences and ideas as culture? How is culture transmitted, appropriated and consumed? What is the role of artists and the expressive arts, including literature, visual arts and performance.

Science, Technology, and Everyday Life: How does work and the deployment of science and technology shape American culture? How do everyday social practices of work, leisure and consumption provide agency for people?

American Studies at Brown emphasizes four intersecting approaches that are critical tools for understanding these themes:

Cultural and Social Analysis: Reading and analyzing different kinds of texts, including literary, visual, aural, oral, material objects and landscapes. Examining ethnic and racial groups, institutions, organizations and social movements.

Global/International Contextualization: Comprehending the United States as a society and culture that has been shaped by the historical and contemporary flows of people, goods and ideas from around the world and in turn, learning about the various ways in which America has shaped the world.

New Media Understandings: Understanding the creation of new forms of discourse, new ways of knowing and new modes of social organization made possible by succeeding media revolutions. Using new media as a critical tool for scholarship.

Publicly Engaged Scholarship: Connecting the theory and the practice of publicly-engaged research, understanding and presentation, from community-based scholarship to ethnography, oral history, and museum exhibits. Civic engagement might include structured and reflective participation in a local community or communities or the application of general theoretical knowledge to understanding social issues.

The Focus
Each concentrator must choose one of the themes or approaches described above as the frame of their focus. The student, in consultation with the Concentration Advisor, will further define the individual focus by adding a subtitle. For example:

Space and Place: Urban Renewal
Space and Place: Public Memorials
Cultural Production and Consumption: African American Music
Cultural Production and Consumption: Photography and American Culture
Global/International Contextualization: Transnational Late Capitalism and Media
Global/International Contextualization: Asian American Immigration
Public Engagement: Narrative and Material Culture

AMST 0160 (JUDS 0066) - The Lower East Side and Beyond: American Jewish History 1880-2000
In this course we will explore the forces that have shaped American Jewry and made it what it is today. We will ask how the Jews who came to America as immigrants created a unique form of Jewish life that combined the political and social traditions of their old countries with the ethos and values they found here. Another key question is the place of American Jews in the Jewish world prior to World War II and how this affected the American Jewish public arena. We will then examine the post-Holocaust years focusing on the creation of a new American Judaism, as well as the cultural, literary and ideological accomplishments of American Jews. We will also examine the complex relationship between American Jews and the State of Israel and how it has shaped Jewish life in the United States. R. Rojanski

AMST 0170D - Musical Youth Cultures
This sophomore seminar explores how and why young people form communities around popular music. We will discuss readings and documentary films about musical subcultures, media circulation, and how young people make music meaningful in their lives. The course requires critical engagement with a variety of popular music genres and cultures, as well as reflection on our own musical production and consumption practices. Major topics include punk, hip-hop, metal, rock, and club music; popular music and intersectional identity (including race, gender, sexuality, ethnicity, and disability); fan communities; activist musical collectives; music-sharing technologies; the politics of style; and ethnographic theory and method. (K. Miller)

AMST 0192F - Whose Land? Tracing History and Memory in the Native Northeast
This course explores local histories of the Native Northeast to introduce relationships between land, indigeneity, and settler colonialism. Students will learn about the Native peoples of present-day New England through readings of origin stories, historical documents, material culture, documentaries, poetry, mapping projects, and academic texts. We will consider the ways history is produced and reiterated in historical writing, popular narratives, and the land itself. Students will gain proficiency in decolonizing historical research methods and learn strategies for interpreting primary and secondary source documents in multiple short writing assignments, with opportunities for revision throughout the semester.  (A. LaForge)

AMST 0192I - Mapping Desire: Queer Spaces in Contemporary Literature
What makes a space queer? How are queer spaces mapped, remembered, and debated within queer communities but also American culture at large? And what sorts of access does literature provide us to these spaces? This introductory course in American Studies aims to engage with these questions by setting students loose in the back roads, closets, and dance clubs of queer literature. Though issues of sex and sexuality will be at the heart of this course, our readings will also explore questions of race, gender, and nation. Authors include James Baldwin, Audre Lorde, Ocean Vuong, and Maggie Nelson.  (T. Dai)

AMST 1090 (AFRI 1090) Black Freedom Struggle Since 1945
Lecture course that examines the extended history of the mass civil rights movement in the U.S. Starting at World War II, we consider the roles of the courts, the federal and state governments, organizations, local communities, individuals and various activist strategies in the ongoing struggle for African American equality, focusing on African American agency, particularly in the South, but also in Boston, Mass. Sources include photographs, documentaries, movies, letters, speeches, autobiographies, and secondary readings. Requirements: Weekly readings, documentary viewings, 4 short papers, 2 exams.  (F. Hamlin)

AMST 1510 - Museum Collecting and Collections
This course will explore and examine the methods, practices, and theory of collections management in a museum setting including collections development, museum registration methods, cataloging, collections care, and interpretation. Through readings, discussion, workshops, site visits, and exhibitions, students will explore what it means to be physically and intellectually responsible for museum objects. This course places heavy emphasis on experiential learning and will include several project-based assignments. (R. Potvin)

AMST 1611M - Trauma and the Shame of the Unspeakable: The Holocaust, American Slavery, and Childhood Sexual Abuse
The problem of representing traumatic experience has been raised by witnesses and survivors, psychoanalysts, psychologists, sociologists, philosophers, and artists. This course compares three historical situations--The Holocaust, American slavery, and childhood sexual abuse--by reading histories, memoirs, and fictions, and analyzing material cultural artifacts such as memorials. Questions about the relation of individual trauma to collective and cultural trauma will be pursued through readings that will include Freud, Jeffrey Alexander, Judith Herman, Dominique La Capra, Primo Levi, Jill Christman, Harriet Jacobs,Toni Morrison, Gayle Jones and Art Spiegelman.

AMST 1700N - Public Memory: Testimony, Memorial, Ritual
This seminar explores theories and practices of public memory by studying three related topics and media. Questions about the relation of history and memory are pursued by reading verbal testimony. Questions about commemoration are developed by looking at material objects and public spaces. Questions about embodied memory are explored by witnessing trauma, performance, and ritual. Readings will include Freud, Nora, Derrida, Halbwachs, Laub, Savage, Connerton, Taylor and Young. Rhode Island will provide our field for understanding how public memory works in verbal, material, and embodied signs of the past and present. (B. Haviland)

AMST 1800 - Honors Seminar
This seminar is for second-semester junior American Studies and Ethnic Studies concentrators who are interested in writing an honors thesis in their senior year. The outcome of this course will be a proposal for the honors thesis along with a bibliography and a research plan and schedule. Topics covered will be the research methods associated with different disciplines; how to make the thesis interdisciplinary; integrating public projects and new media into a thesis. Open to juniors concentrating in American Studies and Ethnic Studies. Enrollment limited to 20. S/NC. (E. Shih)

AMST 1900P - Essaying Culture
This course is interested in the essay as form. As a verb, essay means "to make an often tentative or experimental effort to perform." We will explore through reading and our own writing the poetic, gnomic, and often desultory moves the essay makes as it seeks to understand its cultural objects. Like the novel, the essay is an omnivorous form. It consists of fragments, poetry, personal reflection, lists, rational argument, and much more as it winds its way to understanding. We will be reading a range of essays, as well as theories of the form.  (R. Rodriguez)

AMST 1901B - Form Matters: Contemporary Short Fiction
Form Matters is an advanced seminar in reading contemporary short fiction, mainly centered on US writers. The class particularly focuses on socially-attuned and historically-minded neo-formalist analyses of literature. Fiction readings will be supplemented with relevant critical readings from both scholars and practicing writers. Students will be expected to engage in rigorous discussion of the material. Goals of the course include introducing you to a relevant critical vocabulary for discussing form, deepening your familiarity with contemporary US short fiction, and improving your oral and written communication skills.  (R. Rodriguez)

AMST 1906V - Virtual Bodies: Play, Power, Performance
This seminar investigates digital media practices at the intersection of virtual and embodied experience, from video games and virtual communities to viral dance videos and motion-sensing surveillance systems. How do digitally mediated play, performance, and participatory culture incorporate and/or undermine technologies of power and control? How have new interfaces and media platforms invoked and reshaped ideas about liveness, creativity, authenticity, community, and privacy? What happens when embodied techniques and repertoires are taught and learned using digital media? Readings draw on media ethnography, performance studies, interface studies, and theories of intersectional embodied identity. Class members will undertake a series of practice exercises in which they learn new skills from online sources and collectively reflect on this process. Registration permission granted based on questionnaire distributed at first class meeting.  (K. Miller/S. Skybetter)

AMST 2220T - Slavery in the Recent American Imagination
This seminar explores the representations of antebellum slavery in contemporary mass culture. Manifestations of popular interest include neo-slave narratives and Broadway shows, plantation weddings and tourist-friendly reenactments, documentary-style television dramas and time-travelling speculative fictions and films, radical artistic interpolations and the destruction or preservation of memorials. What disciplinary and interdisciplinary methodologies can frame an understanding of these representations? What politics of memory enables this fascination? And what, lastly, is the relationship between this material and those aforementioned regimes of enslavement – between the contemporary fascination with antebellum slavery and the very real and continued existence of racialized bound labor?  (M. Guterl)

AMST 2220U (HMAN 2401D) - The Fugitivity of Slowness, Stillness, and Stasis
Slowness, stillness, stasis – these terms signal diminished velocity, extended duration, delayed development or reduced exertion. But what if we understand them as an intensification, rather than a reduction, of forces? How do slowness, stillness, and stasis animate fugitivity in various bodies of thought? What if slowness, stillness, and stasis instantiate modes of anti-colonial practice and thought, or imagine/realize a world nonsensical to much of dominant western thought? This collaborative humanities seminar will explore practices of slowness, stillness, and stasis in literature, theory, performance and art, and the ways in which they unsettle our understanding of fugitive social practices of refusal.  (T. Campt)

AMST 2525 - American Studies MA Capstone
This course is required for all Masters students in American Studies who are in their final semester. Enrolled students will work with American Studies faculty to complete an interdisciplinary research paper or project of their choice.  (A. Anderson)

AMST 2600 - Intro to Digital Humanities
The humanities value nuance, while computers process precisely formatted information and structured data. How do we use computers to do humanities work? What are the benefits and the limitations? Students in the course will examine these questions and learn how to use and experiment with a variety of digital methodologies for humanistic research (e.g. text mining, working with structured data, creating data visualizations). The course will also engage students in analyzing the potential intrinsic bias of source texts in datasets and the algorithms that researchers regularly use for text analysis projects, such as topic modeling. Undergraduates by permission of instructor. (TBD)

AMST 2650 - Introduction to Public Humanities
This class, a foundational course for the MA in Public Humanities with preference given to American Studies graduate students, will address the theoretical bases of the public humanities, including topics of history and memory, museums and memorials, the roles of expertise and experience, community cultural development, and material culture. Enrollment limited to 20 graduate students.  (D. Neumann)

AMST 2680 - Semester Practicum in Public Humanities
Practicums in public humanities provide practical, hands-on training that is essential for careers in museums, historic preservation, and cultural agencies. Students will work with faculty to find appropriate placements and negotiate a semester's or summer work, in general a specific project. Available only to students in the Public Humanities M.A. program.  (R. Potvin)

AMST 2684 - Creative & Cultural Entrepreneurship in the Commons
This seminar surveys entrepreneurship within the art-industrial complex, emphasizing the roles of artists as innovators, the commons as laboratory, and cultural institutions as incubators. An inquiry-based course, our collective research works from the premise that entrepreneurship is the creation of social, cultural and financial value, which are inextricably linked under the umbrellas of capitalism and philanthropy. Students will investigate the infrastructures, policies, practices upon which the arts/culture ecosystem is built; engage in fieldwork that surveys the diverse entry points to the field; translate what they’ve learned into an actionable, individualized toolkit, empowering them to opt into (or out of) the art market economy with strategy and confidence. With a focus on personal and professional development, this course equips students with skills, tools and vocabularies vital to actualizing the impact they want to have through their creative practice, projects or ventures. (TBD)

AMST 2970C (HIST 2970C) - Rethinking the Civil Rights Movement
This graduate course encourages a rethinking of the complex components, arguments and activities that have characterized what we have come to know as the Civil Rights Movement, concentrating primarily on African American agency, actions and politics, through careful reading of recent scholarship in the field. While knowledge of U.S. history is preferred, this course asks larger thematic questions about protest movements (the role of the state, relationships with and between oppressed groups and organizations, and periodization), that will interest non-Americanists also. Some of the topics covered include: gender, organizing and strategies, the local, global ramifications and interactions, organizational structures and politics, and the recent concept of the Long Civil Rights Movement.

John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage	Our building at 357 Benefit Street and its gallery at 50 Williams Street are temporarily closed, and public events through May 31 have been cancelled or rescheduled.  For information on Brown’s Coronavirus updates, please visit https://covid.brown.edu/. While our doors may be closed, many of our events, exhibitions and publications are online.
Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America	Brown University's Center for the Study of Race and Ethnicity in America (CSREA) is a leading voice on complex and important social issues and is at the fore of assembling scholars and practitioners to confront some of the most vexing matters facing the nation. Through various programs and initiatives, CSREA fosters creative approaches to entrenched problems such as: social inequality, police profiling, implicit bias, ethnic stereotyping and immigration policies through rigorous and accessible research, scholarship, education, performance, and art. In our increasingly diverse society, it is all the more important that we engage in a meaningful exchange on these critical and complex issues so that we can better navigate the terrain of a rapidly changing world as we create more peaceful, just and prosperous communities.
Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown	The Pembroke Center at Brown University is an interdisciplinary research center that fosters critical scholarship on questions of gender and difference, broadly defined, in national and transnational contexts.
John Carter Brown Library	Americana Collection
John Hay Library	The John Hay Library is home to Brown University's remarkable collections of rare books, manuscripts, and University Archives. We are committed to being an active partner in advancing the University's academic mission and are offering new virtual services for students and faculty. We are here for you.
	
4) List of other relevant information: key-terms, opportunities, student research, projects, other programs (go through other relevant pages)
The Junior Seminar: The Public	The purpose of the junior seminar is to include work in the public humanities as a vital and unique part of the American Studies concentration at Brown. Each concentrator must take a junior seminar, and each faculty member teaching this seminar will define how the public focus of his or her scholarship will form the basis for the course, whether it is public policy, memorialization, community studies or civic engagement, to give four examples.

We expect that some junior seminars will be contained within the classroom, perhaps with the public as the subject, and that others will work with the public, in a range of ways. They might undertake oral histories, do community work, or produce an exhibition, web site, media or other materials for a public audience.

Junior seminars that include work with the public outside the classroom will take advantage of the resources of the John Nicholas Brown Center for Public Humanities and Cultural Heritage. These can include teaching and project assistance by students in the Public Humanities MA program, up to 10 hours per week; use of exhibition space at the JNBC; consulting with JNBC staff; and whatever other support the JNBC might provide. 

Current and recent Junior seminars have been offered on the following topics:

AMST 1700D  Race and Remembering,  Prof. Monica Martinez
This junior seminar engages debates in Ethnic Studies, History, Gender Studies, and the Public Humanities that grapple with the relationship between historical narratives, memory, and social relations of power. Students will examine current tensions in national memory. Each year the topic of this course will change to consider racial formation through alternating social and cultural institutions. This semester we will consider the history of racial formation through encounters with the judicial system, with policing practices, with detention, and incarceration. Students will collaborate to make these histories publicly accessible using methods in public humanities

AMST 1700I  Community Engagement with Health and the Environment, Professor Elizabeth Hoover
This junior seminar explores how local community organizations are taking up issues of health and the environment in culturally relevant contexts. We will examine issues of environmental justice, health disparities and the basic tenets of community based participatory research. We will then partner with a local community organization and, depending on need, assist in the design, implementation, and/or evaluation of a program designed to improve the local environment and/or health status of the community

AMST 1700F American Publics,   Prof. Susan Smulyan
Americans worry about the quality of their civic life and fear its decline. This junior seminar examines an important concept, the public sphere, in its popular and political dimensions as well as looking at the challenges to the boundaries of American public life. Who is a citizen and thus eligible to participate? The course pays particular attention to concerns about the impact of new media--print, broadcasting, the internet--and offers a range of possible final projects.

AMST 1700G Public Memory: Narratives of 9/11,   Prof. Beverly Haviland
This junior seminar will focus on narratives concerned with the events of 9/11 and their aftermath: documentary, testimony, stories, memoirs, novels, graphic novels and feature films. We will also study and visit some of the memorials and museums that have been proposed or created in connection to 9/11 and consider them in the context of public memory and public art. Course work will require a project or research paper that engages the question of the role of the humanities in the creation of the public memory of catastrophic events.

AMST 1700 J: The Teen Age: Youth, Society and Culture in Early Cold War America,  Prof. Richard Meckel
An interdisciplinary and multimedia exploration of the experiences, culture, and representation of youth in the United States from the end of World War II through the beginning of the Vietnam War
American Studies 
Departmental Diversity and Inclusion Plan	The Department of American Studies has a robust commitment to diversity and inclusion. 
 
It also has a long history of being a campus leader on this front. When it was created out of the Program in American Civilization, its founding document called for establishing the first Asian American and Latino Studies positions to join already established positions in the still-new fields of Women's Studies, African American Studies, Labor History and popular culture. Following this origin point, for the past thirty years the department - its faculty and its students - has played a leading role in producing important scholarship on class, gender, sexuality, race, and ethnicity. Scholarship by its faculty and the sizeable number of doctoral students they have trained has played a significant role in the shaping of American Studies as a critical method that is interdisciplinary, intersectional, and attentive to race, gender, and difference in local, national, and global contexts. More formally, in its Standards and Criteria for the Comprehensive Review, the department confirms that it is strongly committed to diversity, broadly conceived to include demographic, intellectual, methodological, and subfield diversity. In its reflections on future hiring, curriculum development, student recruitment, and many other matters, it takes this strong commitment into account. American Studies has, then, long been a leader on campus when it comes to creating new understandings of difference and power, to the broadening of the pipeline, to mentoring undergraduates from marginalized communities into graduate degree programs, and to doing the same for doctoral students, and, more recently, for postdoctoral fellows and faculty. 
 
With this history in mind, in this document the department takes up the subjects of diversity and inclusion intersectionally, as they relate to people of color, citizens and descendants of sovereign indigenous nations, and historically underrepresented and marginalized communities 
- including LGBTQI, low income, undocumented, and first generation college students, and people living with disabilities. In this plan, we use the acronym HUGs to reference the aforementioned people and groups, understood, once again, intersectionally. 

Process 
In the wake of the administration's call for a departmental DIAP – and mindful of the charge to 
be as inclusive as possible – the Chair established in February a committee composed of two graduate students, three faculty members, and one staff person. All three faculty ranks were represented. With the exception of the Chair and the staffperson, all members of the committee were from HUGs. Graduate student members were compensated for their time of service. 
 
The committee meet weekly to discuss its work, and used the categories of the university-wide DIAP as loose model. Several google surveys were pushed to graduate students and undergraduate students. Survey results consistently revealed a positive appreciation of the 
work of the faculty inside and outside of the classroom, while also encouraging a more robust
rotation of speakers and workshops and stronger cross-departmental initiatives, especially with cognate units on campus.

After several weeks of work, the group shared drafts of the report publicly and staged a
sequence of meetings with undergraduate concentrators, graduate students in the MA and PhD degree programs, and, eventually, the full faculty of the department.
The final draft of the document was approved by the faculty on May 10, 2016, by unanimous
vote using a secret ballot.

