School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Engineering
Major: Engineering Physics


The School of Applied & Engineering Physics (AEP), is a department in Cornell University's College of Engineering. The AEP undergraduate major is Engineering Physics (EP). We offer a Master of Engineering in Engineering Physics and an M.S. Program in Applied Physics. The AEP graduate field is Applied Physics (AP).

Engineering Physics teaches the science that underlies engineering. EP gives you a great edge in study and careers and can be a gateway to many opportunities. EP has been one of the top 5 undergraduate EP programs for many years in the US News & World Report rankings.

The Master of Engineering degree in Engineering Physics prepares you for engineering design and development employment or further graduate work. You can broaden and deepen your preparation in AP, or prepare for professional engineering in laser and optical technology, nanostructure science and technology, device physics, materials characterization, or software engineering.

Applied Physics is a research-oriented PhD program that provides a flexible graduate education tailored to individual interests. AP combines a core physics curriculum with research and study in one of several areas. Typically, students have a BS in physics, in another physical science (e.g., chemistry), or in an engineering field.

The mission of the School of Applied and Engineering Physics is to create and disseminate knowledge in intellectual areas at the interface between physics and traditional engineering or scientific disciplines, using the techniques, skills and principles commonly associated with physics. We create knowledge through research and scholarly activity. We disseminate knowledge both by educating undergraduate and graduate students and by performing service to industry, government and professional societies. In all of the endeavors required to fulfill this mission, we aim to maintain the highest standards of excellence.



