School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Archaeology


As an archaeology major, you’ll benefit from an interdisciplinary approach to a broad range of cultures, with courses in classical archaeology and art, Near Eastern studies, and the archaeology of Eurasia, the Americas and Africa. You’ll gain hands-on experience through lab-based courses in zooarchaeology, ceramics, dendrochronology and in the material cultures of Native Americans and Euro-Americans, and will have opportunities for fieldwork both in the U.S. and abroad. The Cornell Institute of Archaeology and Material Studies (CIAMS) is one of the leading archaeology groupings in the U.S. and offers one of the few majors in archaeology in the country.
Sample classes

Archaeology of North American Indians
Art and Archaeology in the Ancient Mediterranean World
Drinking Through the Ages: Intoxicating Beverages in Near Eastern and World History
Across the Seas: Contacts Between the Americas and the Old World before Columbus
Outcomes

All information below is based on the 2014-2018 First-Destination Post-Graduate Survey. Lists are not exhaustive; rather, they are a sampling of the data.
"Other" includes time off, travel, volunteer experiences, and/or preparing for graduate school.
If you would like more information, please email as_careers@cornell.edu
All 2014-2018 Archaeology graduates reported either being Employed or Attending Graduate School.
50% of the Class of 2014-2018 Archaeology graduates completed the survey. n = 8
Below, you will find:
Top Employment Sectors
Where Graduates Work
Top Graduate Fields
Where Graduates Study
Top Employment Sectors
Government
Nonprofit Organization
Retail
Where 2014-2018 Archaeology Graduates Work
Employer	Job Titles
Solo Rugs	Client Services Specialist
 United States Forest Service 	 Archaeological Technician (GS-04) 
Yachad	Joel Daner Yachad Fellowship
Top Graduate Fields Pursued
Archaeology
History of Art & Archaeology
Graduate Degrees Pursued
MA
PhD
MSt
Where 2014-2018 Archaeology Graduates Study
New York University
Stanford University
University of California-Los Angeles
University of Oxford



