School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Agriculture and Life Sciences
Major: Atmospheric Science


Students in Atmospheric Science study the behavior of weather and climate while gaining experience in the analysis, interpretation and forecasting of meteorological events.

In addition to a great education, Cornell offers great experiences as well. Membership in our meteorology club, the Cornell Chapter of the American Meteorological Society (CCAMS), is open to all atmospheric science majors and other interested students.

Many students in this program have won the American Meteorological Society’s prestigious Father James B. Macelwane award for outstanding undergraduate research in Atmospheric Science.

Program Overview
The curriculum is designed with two goals in mind. The basic curriculum meets the guidelines of the American Meteorological Society (AMS), and the requirements for employment in meteorology with the National Weather Service (NWS) and a variety of consulting and professional meteorological services. Students who are considering an advanced degree will also be well-prepared for graduate school, and typically add additional mathematics, physics and atmospheric science courses to the basic curriculum. Students who wish to broaden their studies of the environment may also choose from courses in the separate earth and atmospheric sciences major, which may be completed in conjunction with the atmospheric sciences major.

Learning Outcomes
Function successfully in laboratory and field settings, including use of basic equipment and techniques and putting into practice the basic steps of the research process.
Apply the scientific method using real-world data, including formulation of hypotheses, the use of varied approaches (experimental and observational) for testing hypotheses and appropriate interpretation of data encountered in class, lab, and the literature.
Develop, apply, integrate and generate knowledge to analyze and solve problems in Atmospheric Science.
Collect, organize, analyze and interpret quantitative information meaningfully, using mathematical and/or statistical tools and computer applications as appropriate to the discipline of Atmospheric Science. 
Conduct literature reviews to obtain information, including accessing all forms of literature to investigate topics, critiquing sources and organizing information in a meaningful way. 
Synthesize a cogent argument in language appropriate to the field of study, including written and oral communication skills and presentation of results using graphs and equations, when appropriate. 
Convey atmospheric science concepts, processes, weather forecasts (short to medium range), images and numerical weather model outputs to a diverse audience.


