School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Classics (Classics, Classical Civ., Greek, Latin)

Classics

major
minor
graduate
As a Classics major, you can immerse yourself in the cultures of ancient Greece and Rome through four different tracks (Classics, Greek, Latin, Classical Civilization) taking programs in ancient languages, literature, history, archaeology, history of art, science, linguistics and philosophy. Classics majors work closely with individual professors in their areas of expertise, often in small classes, and have many opportunities for independent research and travel. The rigorous analytical training characteristic of a Classics degree helps to develop skills that are valued in a wide variety of careers, as well as giving students a firm foundation for understanding the history of Western culture. With a minor in classics, you’ll conduct your own odyssey through the ancient Mediterranean world by taking any five coherent classics courses (above 1000-level) from one of four different tracks, acquiring proficiency in either Greek or Latin along the way: Classical literature Ancient history (with emphasis on either Greek or Roman) Ancient philosophy Classical art and archaeology
Requirements

Want to start right away? Here are some basic requirements for students wanting to major in classics. The complete list of formal requirement can be found on the Courses of Study page.
The major in Classics offers four tracks — Latin, Greek, classics (combined Latin and Greek emphases) and classical civilization. Only classes passed with a C– or better may be applied to the classics major. One course must yield a seminar paper of at least 4000 words.
View all classics courses
Sample classes

Greek Mythology
Introduction to Ancient Medicine
Magic and Witchcraft in the Greco-Roman World
Theater, Sport and Spectacle
Outcomes

All information below is based on the 2014-2018 First-Destination Post-Graduate Survey. Lists are not exhaustive, rather they are a sampling of the data. 
"Other" includes time off, travel, volunteer experiences, and/or preparing for graduate school.
If you would like to more information, please email as_careers@cornell.edu
More than 4/5 of 2014-2018 Classics graduates reported being Employed or Attending Graduate School, with the majority Attending Graduate School.
79% of the Class of 2014-2018 Classics graduates completed the survey. n = 26
Below, you will find:
Top Employment Sectors
Where Graduates Work
Top Graduate Fields
Where Graduates Study
Top Employment Sectors
Consulting/Prof. Practice
Financial Services
Government
Other Nonprofit Organization
Technology
Where 2014-2018 Classics Graduates Work
Employer	Job Titles
Analysis Group	Analyst
Epic Systems	Server Systems Engineer
Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts	Corporate Fund Team Member
MedCap Funds	Intern Analyst
New York City Department of Education	Mixed Methods Research Consultant
Top Graduate Fields Pursued
Archaeology
Classics
Education
English/American Studies
History of Art
Law
Linguistics
Medicine
Near Eastern Studies
Theology
Graduate Degrees Pursued
PhD
JD
MA
MD
Where 2014-2018 Classics Study
Brown University
Columbia University
Georgetown University
Harvard University
Princeton University
Stanford University
University of California-Santa Barbara
University of Chicago
University of Oxford
University of South Carolina
University of Virginia
Yale University



