School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Agriculture and Life Sciences
Major: Agricultural Sciences


Developing the future leaders of agriculture
Food and agriculture are at the center of a rapidly changing and growing world, and the challenges we face are some of the most important. The next generation of growers, policy makers, business leaders, innovators and educators are needed to shape the future of agriculture.

Consistently ranked in the top five universities for agricultural sciences, Cornell's Agricultural Sciences major gives you the flexibility to tailor your studies to meet your unique goals with concentrations in animal science, business management and policy, education and society, organic agriculture and sustainable cropping systems management.

Develop your leadership and critical thinking skills through a first-semester cohort course and gain practical, hands-on experience through lab and field courses, while you learn the science of agricultural systems and related environmental and socio-economic issues.

Major in Agricultural Sciences
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) 
Our Agricultural Sciences program offers a flexible, interdisciplinary major that prepares students to tackle important challenges, from improving their family farms to pursuing careers in policy, education, research or agricultural business. The major sits at the center of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, providing access to all that a public-private research university offers.

With CALS’ individualized approach to agricultural sciences, there is no “typical student.” Our major offers a broad foundation in agriculture, but allows for flexibility, so students can tailor their studies and explore their passions across and beyond the agricultural sciences.

Matching our students’ multi-faceted interests, this major allows for deepening your understanding with specific concentrations of study, in preparation for careers that require a scientific and integrated understanding of agriculture and food systems.


