School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: China and Asia-Pacific Studies


China & Asia-Pacific Studies

major
minor
As a China and Asia-Pacific studies (CAPS) major, you’ll be trained as a future leader, equipped to address the inevitable challenges and negotiate the delicate complexities in U.S.-China relations. With four years of intensive Chinese language training and two semesters of internships in Washington, D.C. and Beijing respectively, you’ll be part of a new, ambitious program with unprecedented pre-professional training mapped onto a solid Cornell liberal arts education.
Requirements

Want to start right away? Here are some basic requirements for students wanting to major in CAPS. Keep in mind this isn’t the complete list of formal requirements — that list can be found on the Courses of Study page.
There are no prerequisites to the CAPS major. Upon enrollment, CAPS majors must complete six or seven required CAPS courses and two elective CAPS courses (totaling 34 to 36 credits) with a grade average of C or better.
CAPS majors must take any one of the following courses (taught in Ithaca), normally during the first two years.
CAPS 3049 China's Next Economy (crosslisted GOVT 3044);
CAPS 3403 China under Revolution and Reform (crosslisted GOVT 3403)
CAPS 3827 China and the World (crosslisted GOVT 3827)  Next offered 2020-2021
CAPS 3907 Crises in Asia (crosslisted GOVT 3907)
CAPS 3967 What is China (crosslisted GOVT 3967) Next offered 2020-2021
Other required courses:
ALS 4200 Immersion and Engagement in DC (taught at Cornell in Washington);
CAPS 3000 Seminar in American Relations with China (taught at Cornell in Washington);
CAPS 4998 Inquiry in Politics and Policy (taught at Cornell in Washington);
CAPS 4001 China in Transition (taught in Beijing);
CAPS 4002 Chinese Perspectives on International and Global Affairs (taught in Beijing);
CAPS 4030 Issues in China and Asia-Pacific Studies (offered during the spring semester of the senior year in Ithaca).
For students opting out of the D.C. semester, they will be required to take the following courses offered in Ithaca as a replacement:
CAPS 3502 Becoming a China Hand
Two 4000-level seminars (in any department or college) that has a China focus
Sample classes

China Under Revolution and Reform
China's Changing Politics, Economy and Society
Chinese Perspectives on Global Affairs
U.S.-China Relations
Outcomes

All information below is based on the 2014-2018 First-Destination Post-Graduate Survey. Lists are not exhaustive; rather, they are a sampling of the data. "Other" includes time off, travel, volunteer experiences, and/or preparing for graduate school. If you would like more information, please email as_careers@cornell.edu
More than 4/5 of 2014-2018 China Asia-Pacific Studies graduates reported being Employed or Attending Graduate School, with the majority being Employed.
71% of the Class of 2014-2018 China Asia-Pacific Studies graduates completed the survey. n = 24
Below, you will find:
Top Employment Sectors
Where Graduates Work
Top Graduate Fields
Where Graduates Study
Top Employment Sectors
Education
Government
Nonprofit Organization
Consulting/Prof. Practice
Financial Services
Law
Business - Other
Where 2014-2018 CAPS Graduates Work
Employer	Job Titles
Advisory Board Company	Research Associate
Albright Stonebridge Group	Associate
Ashinaga Tokyo	Princeton in Asia Fellow
Bank of America Merrill Lynch	Analyst
Bipartisan Policy Center	Communications Assistant
Cornell University	Admissions Counselor
Davis Polk & Wardwell	Corporate Legal Consultant
Fulbright	English Teaching Assistant
HSBC	Investment Banking Analyst
Intertrust Resources Management Limited	Internship Trainee
KnowledgeLink	International Program Manager
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory	Research Scholar
New York City Government	Program Coordinator
Shihezi University	Princeton in Asia Fellow
United States Department of Defense	Analyst Intern
Top Graduate Fields Pursued
East Asian Studies
Information Science
Journalism
Law
Music
Statistics
Graduate Degrees Pursued
MA
MS
JD
MPS
Where 2014-2018 CAPS Graduates Study
Brown University
Columbia University
Georgetown University
Harvard University
Princeton University
Stanford University
University of California-Santa Barbara
University of Chicago
University of Oxford
University of South Carolina
University of Virginia
Yale University


