School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Engineering
Major: Mechanical Engineering

The independent spirit at the Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering has been evident since Ezra Cornell started Cornell University 150 years ago as "an institution where any person can find instruction in any study."  Our engineers understand that the problems of the world will not be solved by doing things the way they have always been done.  We know that real innovation comes from the marriage of deep technical knowledge with creative imagination and our program nurtures both the mind and the imagination. 

Our students experience extensive opportunities for hands-on learning combined with scientific and mathematical rigor.  The Sibley School is home of the mechanical engineering (ME) B.S. degree program as well as graduate programs in the fields of mechanical engineering, aerospace engineering (AE) and theoretical and applied mechanics (TAM).  Our undergraduates are actively involved in research.  They also have many outlets to try out their ideas on Cornell Engineering's various student project teams.  M.Eng. students undertake projects ranging from the deeply theoretical to the immediately practical.  Our Ph.D. students advance to positions with government, industry, and universities. 

There are nearly 500 undergraduate and graduate students in the Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering.  These students are taught and supported by tenure-track faculty, exceptional lecturers, and technical research and administrative staff members.  Together, they are creating a better future.

Two Major Streams of Mechanical Engineering

Mechanical systems (structural analysis, dynamics, and control), and Materials Processing are concerned with the design, analysis, testing, and manufacture of machinery, vehicles, devices, and systems. Particular areas of concentration are mechanical systems, vehicle engineering, biomechanics, and materials processing and precision engineering. Other topics covered are computer aided design, vibrations and control systems, and dynamics.

Fluids, energy, and heat-transfer systems are concerned with the experimental and theoretical aspects of fluid flow and heat transfer; the sciences of thermodynamics and combustion; and the analysis and design of related systems. Specific areas of concentration include fluids/aerospace engineering; thermal systems engineering; and vehicle engineering.
