School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Architecture, Art, and Planning
Major: Fine Arts


At Cornell, the study of art is an education in making artistic "objects" that reflect intellectual judgment, philosophical understanding, historical knowledge, and ethical principles sufficient to engage and influence the often bewildering complexity of contemporary life.

Students work to develop the skills specific to the practice of art in addition to and within the understanding that there are more general skills necessary to a critical apprehension of the collective condition. This distinction is made in order to clarify that the department does not view art itself merely as a profession, but as a way of understanding and communicating meaning through materials, language, and images.

Beginning in fall 2018, the Department of Art introduced a redesigned B.F.A. curriculum for students who see themselves as both artists and scholars. This curriculum will combine the intensive studio culture of the art department with enhanced access to electives in all areas of the university. By focusing on interdisciplinary relationships, the department aims to produce a community of artists who will participate in the world as artistic and intellectual leaders.

The program allows the student to map a highly individualized curriculum with the goal of evolving a mature artistic practice at the earliest possible stage.

The two academic components of B.F.A. program consist of the art-specific component taught within the department (64 credits) and the elective component drawn from the university at large (56 credits). The art component consists of seminars and core studio courses in:

Digital media
Drawing
Painting
Photography
Print media
Sculpture
And a wide range of special topics.
The elective component comprises art history requirements and First-Year Writing Seminars plus a full range of elective classes selected by the student with an advisor's input. This latter component offers students a truly unique degree of freedom in integrating ideas, interests, and skills into an artistic practice that is critically, intellectually, and materially advanced.



