School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Agriculture and Life Sciences
Major: International Agriculture and Rural Development


Make an impact in rural communities across the globe
Go beyond the borders of campus to put our knowledge and research to work improving lives across the world. 

Our International Agriculture and Rural Development (IARD) major is designed for students who are interested in tackling the unique and interdisciplinary issues associated with food systems and rural development in emerging nations. You’ll have the opportunity to gain meaningful experience, hands-on by participating in projects and research all over the world. 

Today’s students are acquiring valuable insight and skills while working within rural communities to:

Address poverty and hunger through innovations in agriculture
Increase food security
Advance science and policy related to sustainable development
Contribute to the economic development of emerging economies by strengthening private strategies and informing public policies

Learning Outcomes
Describe, critique and debate competing global development paradigms, and craft and defend a personal philosophy of development.
Demonstrate an ability to apply systems perspectives to analyses of current and future development problems, and to draw upon multiple disciplines for supporting evidence.
Exhibit basic skills appropriate to development practice, including group facilitation, team building, multi-stakeholder problem assessment and priority setting, and participatory learning and action.  
Demonstrate proficiency in applying at least one research or program evaluation approach (quantitative, qualitative, participatory learning and action, etc.) in a real-world situation.     
Propose, plan, secure and carry out an approved summer or semester-long internship or professional practice activity. As part of that experience, demonstrate skill in reflective writing and cross-cultural communication. 
Exhibit attitudes of tolerance, humility and respect in interactions with others, including those who hold different perspectives and world views, or who differ along lines of race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, sexual identity, socioeconomic class or political or religious affiliation.
Others specific to the concentration.


