School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: History of Art


History of Art

major
minor
graduate
As a history of art major, you’ll be able to study areas traditionally central to the discipline such as ancient, medieval and Renaissance art, and the integration of recent fields of theory and research to the study of global visual culture. You can explore the history of cultural interactions as manifested in visual culture both inside and outside the West from antiquity to the present, furthering your understanding of the discipline of art history, its roots, its methodologies, as well as its historical and critical connections with other disciplines.
Requirements

Want to start right away? Here are some basic requirements for students wanting to major in history of art. Keep in mind this isn’t the complete list of formal requirement — that list can be found on the Courses of Study page.
The major in the history of art requires 40 credits, 26 of which must be at the 3000-level or above.
For admission into the major, students need to take ARTH 1100 - Art Histories: An Introduction or complete a 3900-level tutorial.
The major requires:
At least one 2000-level introductory class
At least one 3000-level lecture class
VISST 2000 - Introduction to Visual Studies
ARTH 3101 - Proseminar
Two other seminars at the 4000-level or above
Sample classes

The Museum and the Object
The Art Market
Material Worlds: Trade and the Arts of Asia
Outcomes

All information below is based on the 2014-2018 First-Destination Post-Graduate Survey. Lists are not exhaustive; rather, they are a sampling of the data. "Other" includes time off, travel, volunteer experiences, and/or preparing for graduate school. If you would like more information, please email as_careers@cornell.edu
More than 4/5 of 2014-2018 History of Art graduates reported being Employed or Attending Graduate School, with the majority being Employed.
59% of the Class of 2014-2018 History of Art graduates completed the survey. n = 32
Below, you will find:
Top Employment Sectors
Where Graduates Work
Top Graduate Fields
Where Graduates Study
Top Employment Sectors
Business - Other
Communications/Media
Law
Nonprofit Organization
Consulting/Prof Practice
Retail
Technology
Where 2014-2018 History of Art Graduates Work
Employer	Job Titles
Allegiant	Competition Analyst
Amherst College	Assistant Museum Educator
ARTtwo50	Director of Creative Marketing
Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP	Project Assistant
Bulletin	Brand Experience Leader
City Year	Corps Member
Emanuel Di Donna	Gallery Assistant
Hauser & Wirth	Gallery Assistant
Administrative Intern
Marian Goodman Gallery	Gallery Assistant
Miller Mayer LLP	Immigration Legal Assistant
Onishi Gallery	Gallery Assistant
Perez Art Museum Miami	Education Assistant
Peter Freeman, Inc. 	Gallery Assistant
Richard Avedon Foundation	Sales Outreach
Sotheby's	Trainee
Graduate Trainee
The Atlantic	Ad Op Trafficker
Untitled Entertainment	Intern
Top Graduate Fields Pursued
History of Art
Arts Administration
Law
Comparative Literature
Public Health
Graduate Degrees Pursued
MA
MPH
JD
Where 2014-2018 History of Art Graduates Study
Columbia University
Courtauld Institute of Art
George Washington University
School of the Art Institute of Chicago
SOAS University of London
Yeshiva University

