School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Engineering
Major: Chemical Engineering


As a chemical engineer, you will work with chemical change and chemical processing. You might develop ways to produce chemicals or design, build, and operate a chemical production plant. You might search for new sources of energy, work to clean up the environment, or develop new materials such as polymers and ceramics. Chemical engineers are involved in producing all kinds of goods, including plastics, textiles, and fertilizers, processed foods, and antibiotics. Chemical engineers also work in new areas of biotechnology, including designing new methods to fight life-threatening diseases and more effective ways to deliver medications. 

A degree from Cornell's Robert Frederick Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (CBE) is a gateway to a wide variety of exciting possibilities. Chemical and biomolecular engineers have a significant role in formulating solutions to many of the world's problems. Our graduates are involved in the production of food, pharmaceuticals, energy, electronics, innovative materials, and consumer products. They contribute markedly in research labs, government agencies, production facilities, research hospitals, and academic institutions.

The Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at Cornell was founded in 1938 and has been ranked among the top schools in the country ever since. CBE offers both a top-notch professional education for those seeking to enter industry and a vigorous research program for those drawn to the lab. Faculty and staff are committed to preparing students to be intellectual, professional, and ethical leaders in their field.

The students, faculty, staff, and alumni are as dedicated today as they were in 1938, to founding director Fred "Dusty" Rhodes' vision for the Smith School of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering to be a first-rate institution that produces, "those flashes of scientific imagination and engineering inspiration that form the stepping stones from the impossible of today to the commonplace of tomorrow."



