School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: French


French

major
minor
graduate
As a French major, you’ll have the opportunity to explore in-depth the languages, literatures and cultures of France and the Francophone world. Whether you’re studying Haiti or Montaigne, classical theater or contemporary sexuality, you’ll have the chance to become a flexible and articulate interpreter of texts and ideas. You’ll be encouraged to study abroad and to make connections, wherever you are, across the boundaries of language, discourse, nation and time.
Sample classes

Introduction to French and Francophone Literature and Culture
Versions of Versailles
Monsters A-X (Aristotle-X-Files)
On Paying Attention
Outcomes

All information below is based on the 2014-2018 First-Destination Post-Graduate Survey. Lists are not exhaustive, rather they are a sampling of the data. 
"Other" includes time off, travel, volunteer experiences, and/or preparing for graduate school.
If you would like to more information, please email as_careers@cornell.edu
More than 4/5 of 2014-2018 French graduates reported being Employed or Attending Graduate School, with the majority being Employed.
71% of the Class of 2014-2018 French graduates completed the survey. n = 32
Below, you will find:
Top Employment Sectors
Where Graduates Work
Top Graduate Fields
Where Graduates Study
Top Employment Sectors
Other Nonprofit Organization
Education
Consulting/Prof. Practice
Communications/Media
Financial Services
Hospitality
Biotech/Pharma/Life Sciences
Manufacturing
Law
Technology
Where 2014-2018 French Graduates Work
Employer	Job Titles
Bain & Company	Associate Consultant
Booz Allen Hamilton	Defense Research Analyst
Capital One	Commercial Banking Associate
City Year	Corps Member
Dataminr	Copyeditor and Domain Expert
French Ministry of Culture	Teaching Assistant
French Ministry of Education	Language & Cultural Teaching Assistant
Fresh Start	Research Intern
Goldman Sachs	Legal Analyst
Island Partners Hawaii	Event/Sales/Program Design Coordinator
Jewish Outreach Institute	Program Associate
Kepler Group	Analyst
King's College	Research Assistant
Perez Art Museum Miami	Education Assistant
Proskauer Rose LLP	Paralegal
Teach for China	Teacher
Tracy Mitrano for Congress	Regional Field Organizer
Unilever	Associate Scientist
Worldwide Business Research	Marketing Assistant
Yelp	Account Executive
Young Voices	Managing Editor
Zitter Health Insights	Research Analyst
Top Graduate Fields Pursued
French
Law
Medicine
Plant Biology
Ecology & Evolutionary Bio
Peace & Conflict Studies
Policy Analysis & Management
Graduate Degrees Pursued
PhD
MPA
JD
DO
Master of Letters
Where 2014-2018 French Graduates Study
Columbia University in the City of New York
Des Moines University
Harvard University
University of California-Riverside
University of California-Santa Barbara
University of Pennsylvania
University of St. Andrews


