School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: American Studies


American Studies

major
minor
In American Studies, you’ll embark on an interdisciplinary study of the themes, trends and patterns that characterize the American past and present. You’ll use multiple perspectives and methodologies, learn to synthesize knowledge and develop the critical thinking skills needed for rigorous, complex analysis. American Studies majors have the flexibility to define their own area of concentration, such as visual studies, cultural studies, race and ethnicity, legal and constitutional studies, the American environment, American capitalism or class and social structure.
Requirements

Want to start right away? Here are some basic requirements for students wanting to major in American studies. Keep in mind this isn’t the complete list of formal requirement — that list can be found on the Courses of Study page.
As an American Studies major, you will take a total of 12 courses selected from the American Studies roster.
At least three of the twelve courses must have a substantial focus on material before 1900
At least two must deal with American diversity
At least one must be a 4000 level seminar, either an American Studies 4300 course or an appropriate substitute seminar at the 4000 level.
You’ll define your area of concentration and complete six courses in that area.
Sample classes

American Capitalism
Popular Culture in the United States, 1950 to the Present
Photography and the American Dream
U.S. Immigration Narratives
Outcomes

All information below is based on the 2014-2018 First-Destination Post-Graduate Survey. Lists are not exhaustive, rather they are a sampling of the data. 
"Other" includes time off, travel, volunteer experiences, and/or preparing for graduate school.
If you would like to more information, please email as_careers@cornell.edu
More than 3/4 of 2014-2018 American Studies graduates reported being Employed or Attending Graduate School, with the majority being Employed.
59% of the Class of 2014-2018 American Studies graduates completed the survey. n = 35
Below, you will find:
Top Employment Sectors
Where Graduates Work
Top Graduate Fields
Where Graduates Study
Top Employment Sectors
Other Nonprofit Organization
Education
Retail
Communications/Media
Technology
Law
Consulting/Prof. Practice
Human Healthcare Services
Financial Services
Hospitality
Where 2014-2018 American Studies Graduates Work
Employer	Job Titles
Bloomingdale's	Omni Junior Merchant
Burger King Corporation	Leadership Development Trainee
Catholic Charities	Universal Pre-K Teacher Assistant
Citi	Cards Analyst
Cravath, Swaine, & Moore LLP	Litigation Legal Assistant
Dermatology STL	Doctor's Assistant
Firstline Schools	Communication Fellow
IBM	
Client Relationship Representative
ideas42	Associate
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center	Physician's Office Assistant
Motus LLC	Analyst
Mount Sinai Hospital	Press Office Intern
Ogilvy & Mather	Associate Training Program
Paul Weiss	Litigation Paralegal
Politics and PRose	Bookseller
Roundabour Theatre Company	Management Apprentice
Shore Fire Media	Publicity Coordinator
Stetson Powell Orthopedics	Pre-Med Intern
Teach for America	Teacher (2)
TransPerfect	Project Coordinator
Yelp	Associate Account Executive
Top Graduate Fields Pursued
Law
Chicana/o Studies
Graduate Degrees Pursued
PhD
JD
Where 2014-2018 American Studies Graduates Study
Duke University
Northwestern University
University of California-Los Angeles


