School Name: Cornell
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Science and Technology Studies


Science & Technology Studies

major
minor
graduate
As a science & technology studies major, you’ll explore the social and cultural aspects of science and technology and be encouraged to ask informed and penetrating questions about the social forces that shape science and technology, the limits of scientific authority and the role of technology in modern life.
Requirements

Want to start right away? Here are some basic requirements for students wanting to major in STS. Keep in mind this isn’t the complete list of formal requirements — that list can be found on the Courses of Study page.
As a major, you will complete:
The core course, STS 2011, What Is Science? An Introduction to the Social Studies of Science and Technology
Three additional 2000 level courses.
Additional S&TS courses to total 37 credit hours in the major.
Two courses in natural sciences or engineering (including computer science) in addition to the science requirement of the College of Arts and Sciences.
Sample classes

What is Science
Science in the American Polity, 1960 to Now
Gender and Technology
Communication, Environment, Science & Health
Outcomes

All information below is based on the 2014-2018 First-Destination Post-Graduate Survey. Lists are not exhaustive; rather, they are a sampling of the data. "Other" includes time off, travel, volunteer experiences, and/or preparing for graduate school. If you would like to more information, please email as_careers@cornell.edu
More than 4/5 of 2014-2018 graduates reported being Employed or Attending Graduate School, with the majority being Employed. None reported Seeking Employment.
69% of the Class of 2014-2018 Science & Technology Studies graduates completed the survey. n = 18
Below, you will find:
Top Employment Sectors
Where Graduates Work
Top Graduate Fields
Where Graduates Study
Top Employment Sectors
Financial Services
Government
Education
Human Healthcare Services
Communications/Media
Consulting/Prof Practice
Manufacturing
Technology
Where 2014-2018 STS Graduates Work
Employer	Job Titles
Bank of America Merrill Lynch	Financial Advisor
Cisco Systems	Associate Systems Engineer
Citi	Analyst
City of Dallas	Library Associate
Cline, Davis, & Mann	Copywriter
Harvard University	
Administrative Assistant
Harvard Medical School	Researcher
Mack Molding	Quality Engineer
 National Academy of Medicine 	 Web Communications Associate 
Mew Pathway Education	Consultant
New York Power Authority	Business Process Analyst
Top Graduate Fields Pursued
Information Science
Chemistry
History of Science
Sociology
Law
Graduate Degrees Pursued
JD
PhD
MPS
Where 2014-2018 STS Graduates Study
Cornell University
Georgia Institute of Technology
Stanford University
Princeton University
University of California-Berkeley
University of North Carolina

