School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: German Studies

The German Studies Department at Emory University is a team of teacher-scholars that has as its threefold mission (a) the interdisciplinary research of cultural phenomena in the German- and Yiddish-speaking worlds, (b) the development of students’ foreign cultural literacy through an articulated undergraduate curriculum, and (c) the fostering of connections between the department and other disciplines both at Emory University and beyond.

To carry out this mission, the German Studies faculty maintains an active research agenda into German and Yiddish culture and constantly looks to involve that research in its courses. The courses offered range from beginning German for those with no prior background in the language to advanced courses on cultural, literary, and historical topics relevant to the German-speaking world. In addition, the department offers courses on Yiddish language and culture as well as courses in English on German film, literature, and culture. Central to all of the department's course offerings is a conscious effort to move beyond the boundaries of a strictly national literature department and to explore phenomena that transcend political borders (e.g., German-Jewish cultures, the cultural diversity of the former Austrian Empire). All of the departmental courses are part of a recently revised curriculum that has abolished the bifurcation between so-called "language" courses at the lower level of instruction and so-called 'content' courses at the upper level. Long the norm in foreign language departments throughout the United States, this counter-productive division is ill-suited to maximize the limited contact hours that mark the undergraduate language learning experience. In contrast, a well-designed four-year curriculum that links the study of language with content at all levels of instruction is able to establish a clear trajectory for achieving advancedness in the language in spite of the short amount of time available. Moreover, with a much stronger content orientation in the lower levels, students can already in their very first semester begin examining themes, texts, and discourses that (re)signify German-speaking cultures. In a divided curriculum that kind of inquiry does not really began in earnest until the third year of instruction. Please consult the online Emory College Course Catalogue for a complete overview of the department's course offerings and the Online Course Atlas for the courses currently being offered. For those who have studied German before coming to Emory the department offers an online placement test.

In addition to its course offerings at Emory, the department has affiliations with semester- and year-long study abroad programs at the universities of Freiburg, Berlin and Vienna, as well as its own seven-week-long summer program in Vienna, the longest running summer study abroad program at Emory. German Studies majors and minors are also eligible to participate in the American Chamber of Commerce in Germany Internship Program, a three-month paid summer internship in Germany.

The department offers both a major and minor in German Studies, and many students combine their study of German with another discipline. For instance, in the past few years German majors and minors have also majored or minored in Biology, Physics, Philosophy, Political Science, Business, History, Sociology, and Italian and then used that combination to gone on to pursue careers in medicine, education, law, business, and non-profit work. In addition to their course work in the department, majors and minors are encouraged to take electives with affiliated faculty that deal with topics relevant to the German-speaking world (e.g., a History course on World War I; a Music course on Richard Wagner; a Philosophy course on German Romanticism; a Political Science course on German politics).

Outside of the classroom, the department sponsors a range of extra-curricular activities for its students. The majority of the events originate with the residents of the on-campus German House who plan a calendar of events each year under the supervision of the department's Fulbright Teaching Assistant from Austria. In addition, German Studies majors and minors coordinate a weekly Mittagstisch that allows students to get together over lunch and practice their spoken German.

For its successful implementation of these many curricular and extra-curricular opportunities the department was recognized as one of the first two Centers of Excellence by the American Association of Teachers of German in 2012.

Emory University German Studies Department Vision Statement
Approved unanimously, November 2015

A collegiate Center of Excellence for German Studies recognized for

its scholarly leadership locally and nationally;
its students’ engagement with the discipline;
its integrated curricular approach to German Studies;
its outreach to key stakeholders

The German Studies Department offers a full range of undergraduate courses in German, beginning with elementary German for those with no prior background and progressing to advanced courses on cultural, literary, and historical topics relevant to the German-speaking world. In addition, the department offers courses in Yiddish and on Yiddish culture as well as courses in English on German film, literature, and culture. In addition to its course offerings at Emory, the department has affiliations with semester- and year-long study abroad programs at the universities of Freiburg, Berlin and Vienna, as well as its own eight-week-long summer program in Vienna. For more details on the department's vision, click here.

The department offers both a major and minor in German Studies, and many students combine their study of German with another discipline. For instance, in the past few years German majors and minors have also majored or minored in Biology, Physics, Philosophy, Political Science, Business, History, Sociology, and Italian and then used that combination to go on to pursue careers in medicine, education, law, business, and non-profit work. Click on the links to the left to learn more about the requirements for the major or minor, or make an appointment to speak with the Director of Undergraduate Studies about the study of German at Emory.

Please consult the online Emory College Course Catalogue for a complete overview of the department's course offerings and the class schedules for the courses currently being offered. Those who have studied German before coming to Emory should take the online placement test to determine which course is best suited to their abilities.

It is a particularly exciting time to study German at Emory because of the collaborative effort underway within the department to revise its undergraduate curriculum. Central to the curricular reform is the abolition of the division between so-called "language" courses at the lower level of instruction and so-called "content" courses at the upper level. This curricular reform has resulted in a four-year curriculum that integrates the study of language and content at all levels of instruction and articulates how one curricular level builds on the previous level. Moreover, with a much stronger content orientation in the lower levels, students can already begin examining themes, texts, and discourses that (re)signify German-speaking cultures in first-year German, a level of inquiry that typically does not commence until the third year of instruction in a divided curriculum.
