School Name: Emory
Department: Institute for the Liberal Arts
Major: Interdisciplinary Studies

Emory: Liberal Arts
Run through the Institute for the Liberal Arts (ILA), the IDS major allows you to create your own program around a field that you define.
You’ll work with faculty advisors to help you structure your program and select courses from across departments. Build a solid foundation in writing and research, and your senior project will contribute to the broader public knowledge.

Recent IDS students have focused on the contemporary reception and valuation of science among native American peoples, socioeconomic determinants of health in Georgia counties, and social entrepreneurship in Latin America, just to name a few.
IDS and AMST are the only majors at Emory University that allow students to structure their own program of study around a field of interest that they themselves define:

faculty co-advisers help you identify course requirements unique to you
courses drawn from departments across Emory
solid training in writing and independent research
senior project drawing on two or more disciplines you have studied
Undergraduate interdisciplinary study proceeds on the hypothesis that some, if not all, subjects require methodologies, evidence, or texts drawn from more than one discipline, if they are to be understood deeply. Four pillars structure each student's experience in the undergraduate programs of the ILA: 

an informed perspective on the history, interrelationship, and contested nature of disciplinary boundaries, specifically with reference to social structures and debates surrounding education and higher education
a focus on writing as a crucial dimension of fully engaged reading, understanding, and public scholarship
vibrant co-teaching as a model and embodiment of interdisciplinary inquiry and learning at the undergraduate level
public scholarship—understood as the dissemination or application of the research to a public that extends beyond the academic student-professor relationship, either to the broader Emory community or, beyond Emory, to publics in Atlanta or broader society
Recent IDS and AMST student projects have included studies of:
21st-century African American student activism at Emory University (AMST)
contemporary reception and valuation of science among native American peoples (IDS)
socioeconomic determinants of health in Georgia counties (IDS)
social entrepreneurship in Latin America (IDS)
the role of political advertising in US presidential campaigns (AMST)
And there have been many others.
Outcomes of major:
Earning a degree in interdisciplinary studies allows you to customize your studies to specific career interests. Because innovation so frequently happens at the intersectionsof fields, those who can comfortably navigate and connect disparate knowledge (like math and dance or philosophy and chemistry) will have the advantage in workplace as well as thought leadership.
Recent Emory graduates work at the National Institutes of Health, Georgia Public Broadcasting, Humanity in Action, and Carat.
Example Courses:
1.	SOCIAL SCIENCE AND SUSTAINABILITY: Gain a multi-disciplinary perspective on issues of sustainability through the lenses of anthropology, economics, political science, and sociology.
2.	VISUAL CULTURE: Visual literacy – the ability to analyze and interpret images, including photography, film, art, theater, memes, material objects, as well as collective cultural practices, is a vital component in how we make sense of our world. In this course, you’ll examine visual culture in relation to your own experiences as well as broader societal issues.


