School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Human Health 

Human health is a major global issue and a leading sector for job growth. Emory’s Human Health major takes an interdisciplinary approach to examine the complex scientific and social issues involved in health and well-being.

This degree develops practical skills for a wide variety of health-related careers as well as a holistic understanding of physical, mental, and spiritual well-being.


OUTCOMES
The career outlook for graduates with a Human Health degree is bright. Whether you want to work in the U.S. or globally, the focus on health, health care, and related technical fields is growing quickly and predicted to stay so.

Our graduates find opportunities in research administration, clinical trials, and lab management. And are prepared to succeed in a wide variety of industries in such positions as Health Education Coordinator, Laboratory Technologist, Health Program Director, Public Health Analyst, Health Policy Analyst, Food Safety Expert, and Environmental Consultant.

Recent Emory graduates work at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, NYU Langone Health, Emory University School of Medicine,and Sharecare, Inc.

They’ve also gone on to pursue advanced degrees at institutions such as the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing, Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, NYU School of Medicine, and George Washington University.

About the Center
In a time when we enjoy the greatest knowledge of health in human history, individuals in our society are experiencing a declining trend in health and well-being. The Emory Center for the Study of Human Health was developed to help close that gap by expanding health knowledge and translating this knowledge to all aspects of life – for the individual and populations as a whole. The Center assembles the extraordinary faculty, researchers and thought leaders from across disciplines, departments, schools and institutions to bring this knowledge to Emory University students and inspire them to become leaders for the next generation in meeting challenges facing human health. The Emory Center for the Study of Human Health welcomes you to share what we know, to identify what we need to know, and to engage you wherever your career aspirations may take you.
