General Information
School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Department of Dance and Movement Studies

Dance is perhaps the most unique and all-encompassing pursuit in the fine arts. It involves a total exploration of the self—emotional, intellectual, and kinesthetic. Dancers not only gain collaborative, creative, and critical thinking skills, they also develop an extraordinary level of discipline, resilience and an ability to maintain grace under pressure.

Through Emory’s Dance and Movement Studies program, you will grow your awareness and appreciation of movement in all its diverse forms as well as your ability to communicate through non-verbal expression.

Many of our Dance and Movement Studies students go on to pursue successful careers as dancers, choreographers, and educators.
Frequently, they choose to double major, combining their passion for dance with other disciplines–such as business, which supports future goals for working in arts management or owning their own companies–or the life sciences, which allows them to incorporate the benefits of movement into a variety of medical, therapeutic, and other professions.  
Recent graduates have gone on to work at BlackLight Productions, Lucky Penny, Core Performance, HAVEN, Out of Hand Theater, the Bates Dance Festival, David Rousseve/REALITY, California State University—Long Beach, and  the Suarez Dance Theater.  
They’ve also attended graduate programs at such prestigious institutions as the University of California – Los Angeles, Florida State University, the University of Michigan, California Institute of the Arts, and the University of the Arts in Philadelphia. 
The Department of Theater and Dance provides a range of opportunities for students to experience, create, and support performance. We are a community of artists who foster each student's creative, intellectual, and communicative powers within the larger context of a liberal arts education. This is a collaborative environment, a place for improvisation, critical thinking, analysis, and risk-taking. The theater and dance faculty are teachers with records of excellence and artists/scholars exploring diverse approaches to performance.

Dance and Movement Studies Program invests in the traditions of modern dance, the cutting edge of movement invention, and the theory and analysis of movement research. We value individualism, innovation, and interdisciplinary approaches to learning and dance making. We develop skilled and uniquely expressive individuals who move and act with intelligence and sensitivity, think independently, and value original thought and diversity. The curriculum includes courses in improvisation, world dance forms, arts writing and criticism, performance, choreography, dance history, Laban studies, dance pedagogy, concert production, contemporary issues, principles of design, and somatic practices. Students also have the option to participate in dance internships with contemporary dance companies and a nationally recognized youth development organization, or to develop individual projects in dance influenced by their interdisciplinary study or civic engagement. 

Emory Dance presents a wide range of public programming each year, including Emory Dance Company concerts, site-specific performances, Women’s History Month Performance Series, Friends of Dance Lecture Series, Dance for Reel (dance for camera), Atlanta Contact Improvisation Jams, Fieldwork Showcases, guest artists, and faculty concerts.

