School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: English

In every area of life—whether you pursue a career in academia, business, or law—your success depends your ability to communicate intelligently and persuasively. Great writers are critical thinkers who can distill and organize complex issues and make sense of the world through a fresh lens.

At Emory, you’ll delve into classical and modern writing and explore genres ranging from poetry to science fiction and Shakespeare to Southern literature.

Along with a traditional English major, we have the following joint majors:

Classics and English
History and English
4+1 BA/MA

OUTCOMES
Earning a degree in English provides a solid foundation for many career paths. You might think of teaching or journalism—but our Emory English major alumni work in many areas, including media and communications, business development, law, marketing healthcare services, and information technology.

Recent Emory grads have gone on to successful careers at Bloomberg, Teach for America, The Home Depot, L’Oreal USA, Tory Burch, and City Year.

They’re also pursing advanced degrees as such institutions as Loyola, University Chicago School of Law, Boston College, Emory School of Medicine, and Oxford University.

With close to 300 majors and minors and over 30 faculty members, we are the largest humanities department at Emory.  Our top-ranked Creative Writing program benefits from faculty who are major voices in poetry, fiction, and creative non-fiction, and our highly selective PhD program has placed scholars in faculty around the United States and internationally and in curatorial positions in distinguished archival collections.  Faculty in our writing program teach courses in technical writing, oral and visual communication, writing for interactive media, and rhetorical theory.  They also oversee Emory’s first-year writing program and Writing Across Emory (WAE), the College’s writing across the curriculum program. 

Many of our scholars bring interdisciplinary perspectives to fields such as African American studies, literature & science, LatinX studies, digital humanities, disability studies, Irish studies, studies in gender and sexuality, psychoanalysis, postcolonial studies, rhetorical genre studies, and philosophical and theoretical approaches to literature.   We regularly host visiting writers and scholars from around the world, most prominently in our biennial Ellmann lecture series, and our research and teaching draws on the world-class archives held in Emory’s Rose Library.  

The study of literatures in English--including literature of the Americas, the British Isles, Asia, and Africa--gives one a greater understanding of the role language plays in shaping the world. Working closely with a variety of texts, you will develop critical, analytical and interpretive skills needed to read with intellectual awareness and aesthetic sensitivity. These skills develop further through the major's emphasis on writing. English majors have many opportunities to focus on research and writing, and they learn how to communicate ideas clearly and convincingly. By reading and writing about literature you have the opportunity to extend your understanding of your own and others' cultures at the same time as you enhance practical linguistic abilities that can serve you in a variety of professional and academic settings.
