School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Biology

An education in biology offers an excellent preparation for careers in medicine or health care, biological research, ecology, biotechnology, forensic science, as well as many other possibilities. The Department of Biology occupies state-of-the-art laboratories in the O. Wayne Rollins Research Center. Faculty specializations include cell and developmental biology, genetics and molecular biology, ecology and evolutionary biology, and neurobiology and behavior. As part of its primary commitment to undergraduate education, the biology department actively fosters student participation in research with its faculty as well as through cooperative arrangements with scientists at Emory University School of Medicine, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and Yerkes National Primate Research Center. Biology department faculty are also heavily involved in programs leading to a PhD. These programs are housed in the Graduate Division of Biological and Biomedical Sciences, and they include faculty from several departments of Emory College and the School of Medicine.

At the undergraduate level, the Department of Biology at Emory offers a diverse and extensive curriculum designed to expose students to cutting edge theory and practice in biology.  Successful completion of the introductory biology sequence prepares students for advanced study in cell and molecular biology, physiology, ecology and evolutionary biology, and other biological subdisciplines.  Opportunities are provided for supervised laboratory experiences, seminars, directed study, and research.  Our curriculum is designed to provide the biological background necessary for post-baccalaureate training at the graduate or professional level.

After completing a Biology major, students will be able to:
1.  Explain and apply major biological concepts and connect concepts from the biological and physical sciences.
2.  Develop problem solving, critical thinking, and quantitative skills to address biological questions.
3.  Be able to pursue successfully career or post-baccalaureate education goals.

