School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Anthropology

Anthropologists study the full spectrum of what it means to be human. Investigating the pressing issues facing nations, communities and scientific inquiry today, anthropology is vital to many of the compelling intellectual conversations occurring at Emory and beyond. 
Anthropology is the most holistic of the social sciences: it takes the entire range of human diversity as its field of study.  By its very nature, anthropology is an interdisciplinary enterprise, and is sought out by many other disciplines for cross-fertilization of ideas.  Central to the anthropological venture is the study of forces that have shaped our ways of thinking and acting, how we represent ourselves, and our very physiology.  The discipline is increasingly mindful of the inequities that people have been heir to and how these are perpetuated or reestablished in the present. We are committed to integrative and empirically-grounded approaches to the human experience. Using ethnographic, computational, digital, archaeological, historical, biological, comparative, and experimental research methods, anthropologists explore a broad range of human conditions, past and present. Our teaching prepares students to “think outside the box,” to approach intellectual questions with curiosity and passion, using scientific knowledge from peoples and cultures around the world. We help students develop the analytical and communicative skills to address contemporary dilemmas from cultural, historical, and evolutionary perspectives.
The Department of Anthropology offers both a Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Anthropology and a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Anthropology and Human Biology, a joint major in Anthropology and Religion (BA) and a minor in Anthropology. There are opportunities for Anthropology majors to expand their educational experience by getting involved in research with departmental faculty, by participating in the Honors Program and by joining the Emory chapter of Lambda Alpha Anthropology Honor Society.
Anthropology graduates have gone on to careers in international development, public health, education, diplomacy, law, social justice activism, business, entrepreneurship, and medicine as well as careers in academia. As a scholarly community, we train future researchers, academics, and civic leaders to succeed in and make a strong impact on our increasingly complex and interconnected world. 
