School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: English & Creative Writing

Join a powerful community of creative writers and thinkers. In Emory's English and Creative Writing program, you will study both art and craft of writing, alongside some of the nation’s most talented students and acclaimed faculty in one of the nation's leading creative writing programs.

Build your skills from idea to draft to revision—as you explore areas including fiction, nonfiction, dramatic writing, and poetry.  

OUTCOMES
Graduates from the English and Creative Writing program go on to highly competitive writing and PhD programs as well as to many other fields of study, including medicine, business, and law.  

Recent graduates are working at Forbes Travel Guide, CNN Digital, Penguin Random House, Modern Luxury, Challenge Foundation, and William Morris Endeavor.  

Notable alumni include:

Lauren M. Gunderson, named the country’s most produced playwright in 2017
Brian Tolleson, the founding partner of communications and brand strategy firms Lexicon and Bark Bark
Lauren Giles, corporate lawyer and Alston & Bird partner
Grammy-winning country singer-songwriter Kristian Bush of Sugarland

The undergraduate Creative Writing Program at Emory celebrates its 29th birthday this year. In this program, students can approach the study of literature in a creative way - through their own writing - as well as by the more traditional method of critical analysis and reading. Students may also pursue their personal interests and investigate specific genres, including poetry, fiction, creative non-fiction, playwriting and screenwriting.

The Creative Writing Program
PLEASE SEND YOUR APPLICATION IN WORD FORMAT AS ONE DOCUMENT WITH ANY REQUIRED WRITING SAMPLES ATTACHED

All majors must take one 200-level introductory workshop in prose or poetry. The same is required of non-majors who wish to take creative writing workshops, though some professors may choose to waive this requirement for junior and senior non-majors. The requirement is never waived for majors. The only 300-level class that does not have a 200-level pre-requisite is ENGCW/THEA 372RW Playwriting (offered only in the fall semester). Some instructors may require writing samples even though you have taken a pre-requisite course.

Students who have completed the 200-level requirement may move into any Intermediate workshop. Creative Writing majors may take only ONE 200-level course as part of the major.

(For Advanced Courses in Spring semesters): Students who make a A- or better in the Intermediate level workshops may apply to take advanced level workshops. All other students must apply to these workshops with a manuscript submission (students must also complete the application form). The individual instructor may require manuscript submission from all students for admission to the advanced workshops. Only students who receive this positive assessment of readiness will enter advanced workshops.

All Creative Writing courses are permission-only and require an application to be submitted to the Creative Writing Program office. Due to extended Spring Break and remote instruction this semester, applications should be e-mailed to Paula Vitaris at pvitari@emory.edu. If your application includes a writing sample, the sample must be attached to the application and sent as ONE DOCUMENT IN WORD FORMAT. Applications are available at the Creative Writing Program office in N209 Callaway and may also be downloaded from the Quicklinks section on the right. You may also e-mail pvitari@emory.edu to request an application in Word format. Applications will be accepted up to the end of add-drop in the fall. Creative Writing workshops fill up quickly so apply as soon as possible. If the class you apply for is full, you will be added to a waiting list and you will be contacted by e-mail if a space opens up.

Fall 2020 Course Atlas: http://creativewriting.emory.edu/home/academics/fall%202020%20course%20atlas.html

Please read the Course Atlas description before applying. The atlas includes details about required writing samples, pre-requisites and other information you need to know before choosing a class.
