School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Environmental Sciences

Environmental scientists work to solve many of our world's most pressing issues. As stewards of natural resources, they protect our water, help control pollution, clean up toxic waste, advise on land use and development, and engage in environmental law and policy decisions.

At Emory, you’ll study the ecological and social foundations of environmental issues. Our interdisciplinary curriculum lets you build both knowledge and practical, real-world skills, through field study, internships, research, and study abroad programs. 

Emory offers the following programs:

A traditional Environmental Sciences BA or BS
An Environment Management Concentration in the Goizueta Business School
A 4+1 Environmental Science BS/MS
4+1 Environmental Science BS/EH MPH, Master of Public Health

OUTCOMES
Environmental science is a broad field that offers a whole world of professional opportunities. You could focus on water policy and management, climatology, wildlife and fish conservation, environmental law, or urban forestry (just to name a few).  

Recent Emory graduates have gone on to work at The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, The Rollins School of Public Health at Emory University, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, and Berkeley Lab.  

The field of environmental sciences challenges students to examine both the ecological and social underpinnings of environmental issues and the complex interplay among these systems at local to global scales. The Department of Environmental Sciences at Emory University offers an interdisciplinary curriculum that combines coursework in both natural and social sciences and the humanities. Because environmental issues transcend traditional disciplinary boundaries, the structure and content of the Environmental Sciences (ENVS) curriculum emphasizes systems thinking and integrative learning. Classroom activities and field and individual study courses allow students to engage in real world issues. The curriculum is designed to sharpen critical thinking and problem solving skills by challenging students to translate theory and classroom learning into practice. Students are strongly encouraged to participate in internships and/or research, and to study abroad when possible.

The Department of Environmental Sciences is dedicated to addressing the complex and dynamic interactions between people and the environment from both natural science and social science perspectives. Through these interdisciplinary perspectives, and by integrating research, teaching, and service, our goal is to advance knowledge and prepare the next generation of researchers and practitioners. We strive to exert a significant positive impact on human and ecosystem health, sustainable global development, and resource management and conservation, at local, regional and global scales.

The department offers a BA, BS, a Minor in Environmental Sciences, a Minor in Earth and Atmospheric Sciences (EASC), a Minor in Sustainability Sciences (SSC), a Concentration in Environmental Management with the Goizueta Business School BBA Program, a five-year (4+1) BS/MPH with the Environmental Health Department in Rollins School of Public Health, a five-year (4+1) BS/MS with Laney Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and a two-year ENVS Master of Science program with the Laney Graduate School.
