School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: African American Studies

African American Studies at Emory University pursues academic excellence and social responsibility through interdisciplinary scholarship, transformational pedagogy, and engagement with local, national, and international communities of African descent.
AAS changes the focus and broadens the vision of students in their explorations of human experience, history, literature, culture, and politics. The Department prepares students for work, life, and the realities and responsibilities of twenty-first century global citizenship through an interdisciplinary approach to liberal arts education. AAS creates learning communities characterized by introductory, advanced, and integrative forms of learning. Students have numerous opportunities to participate in first-year seminars, lectures, writing-intensive courses, undergraduate research experiences, diversity curriculum, and capstone courses and projects. Here, faculty and students work collaboratively in the democratic pursuit of greater understandings of politics, culture, social movements, and society; of knowledge, ethics, evidence, and interpretation; and of the past and present as both means and ends.

A degree in AAS helps students train for successful careers and admission to leading graduate and professional programs in a variety of fields. Our majors and minors go on to fulfilling careers in law, education, business, medicine, public service, and more. The Department provides students with opportunities for intellectual growth, community engagement, research, and mentorship. Year after year, our students produce award winning and publishable scholarship, and they earn some of the nation and university’s most prestigious and competitive undergraduate scholarships, fellowships, and awards. The discipline of AAS is about more than the academy and accolades, however—it also is about applying critical knowledge and skills in ways that empower students, other members of the Emory community, and ultimately, society at large.
AAS students and faculty have access to unique resources and opportunities at Emory. This includes the vast African American history and culture special collections in the Stuart A. Rose Manuscript, Archives, & Rare Book Library as well as the programming of the James Weldon Johnson Institute for the Study of Race & Difference, a unique and nationally distinguished entity established at Emory by the late AAS department chair, Dr. Rudolph Byrd.

Emory's Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship Program (MMUF), administered by the Department of African American Studies, supported undergraduates who feel called to earn a doctorate, and to teach at the college or university level and creates opportunities for undergraduates to undertake research projects with Emory faculty members who function as mentors during the two-year period of this fellowship. In addition to joining a national and international network of emerging scholars, Mellon Fellows receive a stipend throughout the academic year, summer stipends, and the forgiveness of a percentage of undergraduate loans while earning a doctorate in a Mellon field or discipline. The fundamental objective of the MMUF Program is to increase the number of minority students, and others with a demonstrated commitment to eradicating racial disparities, who will pursue PhDs in core fields in the arts and sciences. This program aims to reduce over time the historic under-representation on the faculties of individuals from certain minority groups (African Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans), as well as to address the attendant educational consequences of these disparities. The program serves the related goals of structuring campus environments so that they will be more conducive to improved racial and ethnic relations, and of providing role models for all youth. Students that are eligible to apply are rising juniors with a minimum GPA of 3.2. The Mellon Foundation supports doctoral study in the following fields and disciplines: art history, classical studies, English, foreign languages, American and English literature (including area studies), history, musicology, philosophy, religious studies, sociology, anthropology, demography as well as political theory and other fields that employ historical or philosophical methods. Emoryís MMUF Program aims to achieve its mission by identifying and supporting students of great promise and helping them to become scholars of the highest distinction.
