School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Anthropology and Human Biology

The Bachelor of Science in Anthropology is a concentration in biological anthropology. It is designed to cultivate one of the particular strengths of Emory's Anthropology department. While the degree requires training in general Anthropology, it has a clear emphasis in the area of human biology.
Emory's Anthropology department specializes in Biological Anthropology and Cultural Anthropology. This two field approach reflects the common intellectual interest of the department to promote the interaction between biology and culture. This major is designed, in part, to establish an alternative pre-medical curriculum. The Anthropology department believes that future physicians will benefit from exposure to (at least) three perspectives in anthropology:
A biological perspective emphasizes the importance of our evolutionary heritage in shaping behavior, the developmental process, and social relations.
A social scientific perspective provides a methodology for understanding the complex interactions between human behavior and biology.
A humanistic perspective emphasizes the cultural coherence of human values, beliefs and symbols and their importance for particular social groups.
GOALS FOR STUDENT LEARNING FOR BS IN ANTHROPOLOGY AND HUMAN BIOLOGY (PDF)
At the time of graduation, students receiving the B.S. degree in Anthropology and Human Biology should be able to:
Recognize the theoretical bases and methodological approaches that characterize the four major subfields of Anthropology (cultural, biological, linguistic, and archaeological)
Explain and apply a critical understanding of evolutionary theory, human biological variation, including specifically hominid evolution, and non human primate behavior
Understand the cultural diversity that characterizes human societies through engagement with ethnography and be able to apply a comparative framework (cross-culturally or cross-species) to understand human behavior.
Demonstrate an understanding of statistical methods and an ability to interpret numerical and graphical data
Demonstrate an awareness of the ethical and social implications of research on both humans and animals.
