School Name: Emory
Department: Department of Classics
Major: Latin 

Examples of our course offerings include classical mythology, Roman law, Greek and Roman religion, women in antiquity, and Greek and Roman literature in translation. Most of these courses have no prerequisites, and all fulfill general education requirements (GERs) of Emory College of Arts and Sciences. Prospective students or Emory students considering a major or minor in the Department of Classics are encouraged to explore our website, especially the "Undergraduates" section pages.
What can you do with a classics major?
The short answer is, just about anything you want. Employers—as well as graduate and professional schools—want liberal arts graduates for their broad knowledge and exceptional abilities to reason, connect ideas, and communicate across disciplines. With a liberal arts major such as classics, you’ll be prepared to excel in many careers, not just trained for one.

Where do classics majors work?
Classics majors go on to work in fields including business, law, medicine, education, and religion, in a range of roles. Our graduates are doctors, lawyers, consultants, bankers, classics professors, ministers, and teachers of all kinds.

Law:Law is a very common profession for classicists, and classics students generally have the highest scores on the LSATs of students in any major.
Medicine:Quite a few classics students go to medical school. A 2012 classical civilization minor currently enrolled in an MD/PhD program at the University of Iowa Carver Col­lege of Medicine says “Learning Latin has helped me in my study of medicine. Many medical terms are derived from Latin. . . . I also learned to become a better writer through my degree. I use these writing skills in both my medical education and in my scientific research.”
Business:Dan LeClerc, a 2005 graduate with a double major in classics and business who is currently in his second year in an MBA program at the Wharton School, says, “Having the classics line on my resume has been infinitely more interesting and revealing to potential employers than a business degree was. Especially out of undergrad, employers are seeking students with diverse passions and a track record of success, not cardboard copies of business people.” LeClerc has held positions at Bain and Company, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, and the Clinton Health Access Initiative in Kampala, Uganda. Other recent graduates of the department have worked for Google, for Calvin Klein Home, for McKinsey & Company, for Carter’s Inc., and for various nonprofits.
Education
High School Teachers--Many of our students go directly into high school Latin teaching upon graduating or after attending master of arts in teaching programs.
Classics Professors--Graduates also attend PhD programs in classics and become classics professors. Recent graduates are currently attending graduate programs in classics at Harvard University, Tufts University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Toronto, and the University of Washington. Graduates of Emory who major in classics are currently professors at Georgetown University, the University of Massachusetts, and Emory (Betty Gage Holland Professor of History). A 1999 graduate of Emory with a classics major just spent the year as the Leverhulme Early Career Fellow at Oxford University in England.
Ministry: Some classics majors have taken their broad humanities training and their expertise in ancient Greek into the ministry. This is also a good choice for students pursuing the joint major in classics and religion.
