School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Film & Media Studies

In Film and Media Studies at Emory, you’ll explore how sounds and images create ideas as you examine the theory, history, and practices underlying film and television. The rigorous curriculum includes screenings, readings, class discussions, guest lecturers, and hands-on projects and workshops.

Students develop technical and analytical skills to see how films not only tell stories, but also influence perceptions.

Learn all of this with Atlanta as your backdrop. Home to such studio powerhouses as Pinewood Studios and Tyler Perry Studios, Atlanta is known as the Hollywood of the South. The city is 3rd in the nation, behind L.A. and New York City, for being the homebase film location of global blockbusters.

OUTCOMES
Many of our film studies graduates go on to workin the entertainment industry. But an equal number have used the critical thinking and communication skills they develop as a basis for successful careers in medicine, law, business, journalism, and teaching. 

Recent graduates work at CNN, Marvel Entertainment, Gumbo Productions, Abrams Artists Agency, Cox Media Group, Crisp Video Group, and Crazy Legs Production.

We welcome you to the Department of Film and Media Studies at Emory University. Film and Media Studies offers students the best of both worlds:

our small department within a major research university provides our students with close mentoring, and
an individually tailored course of study.
Our department's mission is media literacy, the ability to think critically about the ways in which images and sounds create ideas. We train undergraduate and graduate students to be discerning viewers and thinkers about the most influential cultural forms of the 20th and 21st centuries, by grounding them in a thorough knowledge of American and international film history, the practices of film and television criticism, film and media theory, and by providing interested students with training in screenwriting and filmmaking.

Why study film and media at Emory University?
We are surrounded by moving images-on television, in movie theaters, on our computers, and even in electronic billboards. If you can understand the ways in which media communicate visually and with sound, you can become a more media literate, perceptive, discerning and skeptical citizen in the globalized 21st century. Even if you take just one course in the department (such as Introduction to Film), you will never look at moving images the same way again.

Undergraduate
Undergraduate Video Game Class at Emory
Our majors and minors go on to careers in academia, medicine, the law, literature and the media entertainment industry, armed with the critical thinking skills that are the hallmark of an interdisciplinary liberal arts education. They are well prepared for whatever career they choose to pursue. In short, the Film and Media Studies Department plays a crucial role in the mission of Emory's College: to prepare students "to be responsible and well-informed citizens of the world."

Film Studies
Our majors are highly motivated, passionately enthusiastic and thoroughly trained in the perception and interpretation of moving images, and as well as the skills necessary to communicate their ideas orally and in writing.

They also can take courses in fiction narrative, documentary and avant-garde filmmaking, as well as screenwriting.

Media Studies
The new major and minor in media studies offer an interdisciplinary approach to the understanding of media.

Film and Media Management
Our Concentration in Film and Media Management (for Film Studies majors only) provides undergraduates with the tools to navigate the contemporary media industries.

