School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Jewish Studies 

A major or minor in Jewish Studies at Emory is an organic component of a liberal arts education. It is also an entrance into all the disciplines of the humanities and social sciences. With a core faculty of acclaimed scholars of history, law, religion, anthropology, ethics, literature, psychoanalysis and language, and with affiliated faculty whose expertise ranges from biological and behavioral anthropology to film and photographic history, TIJS offers students one of the largest interdisciplinary Jewish studies programs in the nation.
Goals:
The major in Jewish Studies has two objectives:

Goal I - to train students in understanding various aspects of Jewish history, culture, and society; and
Goal II - to guide students in exploring these topics by means of different disciplines and methodologies, such as history, religious studies, language and linguistics, literature, theology, political science, and anthropology.
The program offers an excellent avenue for any student interested in a broad liberal arts education emphasizing evidence-based research, critical analysis, and writing.
In addition, the major also provides an excellent foundation for those students who would like to pursue graduate-level work in Jewish Studies, a profession in the Jewish community, or any career suited to a knowledge of different cultures, societies, and historical eras.
The Jewish studies program examines Jews and Judaism from the perspective of different disciplines in the humanities and social sciences, such as history, religious studies, language and linguistics, literature, theology, political science, and anthropology. This interdisciplinary approach has two objectives: first, to train students in understanding various aspects of Jews and Judaism; and second, to expose students to the serious investigation of topics with different disciplines and methodologies. The program offers a unique opportunity to pursue a high-quality liberal arts education while providing an excellent foundation for students who would like to pursue Jewish studies in graduate school, enroll in a rabbinical program, or work in Jewish organizations and communities. Students who major in Jewish studies will take nine courses and also will gain advanced language proficiency in Hebrew or another Judaic language.
