School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Chinese Studies

The major in Chinese combines extensive language training with in-depth study of Chinese literature, culture, and society. Our student-centered curriculum offers four years of modern Mandarin Chinese, an introduction to classical Chinese, and a wide range of interdisciplinary courses as well. In addition to Chinese language classes, our Chinese faculty teach a wide range of courses ranging from traditional to modern topics in Chinese history and culture, including film, women's studies, linguistics, and historiography.
Boren Awards for International Study
Applications for the David L. Boren Scholarships and Fellowships are available now. Boren Awards provide funding for U.S. undergraduates and graduates interested in international study.
If you had any experience learning Chinese prior to entering Emory, you are required to be evaluated by either taking a placement test or by speaking with the Chinese language coordinator. The placement test will consist of the final exam of the course preceding the one in which you wish to enroll. Students are strongly advised to take the course into which they are placed
To determine proper paths towards the major/minor, please see the following notes:
Native speaker 
Students who have completed elementary school and received secondary school education at any grade in any type of school from a country or area in which Chinese is the official language or one of the official languages are considered native speakers and are not eligible to take Chinese language courses tagged as HAL or HAL/HAP. 
Heritage speaker
Chinese heritage speakers are required to take Chinese language courses in the heritage track (CHN103, 203, 303, and 403).
A heritage speaker is defined as “a student who is raised in a home where Mandarin Chinese is spoken by the family members including grandparents, who speaks or merely understands Mandarin Chinese, and who is to some degree bilingual in English and Mandarin Chinese.”
