School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Chemistry

Chemistry is a broad field, which means career options vary considerably. You could wind up doing research and development in a corporate lab setting, become an environmental expert for a government agency, work in the nonprofit sector, work in academia, or become an entrepreneur.  
Recent Emory grads are working at the Atlanta VA Medical Center, Viatech Publishing Solutions, Walgreen’s Pharmacy, and Teach for America.  
They’re also pursuing advanced degrees at such institutions as University of California—Berkeley, Yale, Princeton, Emory’s Rollins School of Public Health, and the University of Arizona.  
$78,330 MEDIAN PAY FOR CHEMISTS Bureau of Labor Statistics
#20 EMORY'S SCIENCE LAB FACILITIES, Princeton Review, 2019
ACS Certified
Emory offers an ACS certified degree to students on the B.S. track who take specific elective credit. See a chemistry advisor to make a plan for the ACS track.
Research B.S.
B.S. majors engaged in research may substitute 3 units of CHEM 495/499 in place of one advanced-level lab course.
Pre-Health Prep
Chemistry is great preparation for both majors and non-majors. Non-majors interested in pre-health careers should complete the chemistry core through CHEM 204/204L
"Z" Track
Students with AP/IB credit may elect to swap CHEM202z/203z for CHEM 202/203. This accelerated track is the preferred pathway for students entering with a strong chemistry background.
Capstone Chem
Students on the B.A. track have the option of substituting a 400-level capstone course for one 300-level lecture during their last semester at Emory
Biochemistry
As part of Chemistry Unbound, we are rolling out interest-based tracks for majors! See a chemistry advisor to make a plan for the biochemtrack.
ECCP - YOUR PERSONAL CHEMISTRY TUTOR
Emory College Chemistry Preparation (ECCP) prepares you to succeed in CHEM 150: Structure and Properties. The driving force behind the ECCP is ALEKS, an artificial intelligence-based teaching tool.
Your work with ALEKS will account for 3% of your final grade in CHEM 150. That means that once you’ve learned everything ALEKS says you need to know in “pie chart learning mode”, you’ve aced your first assignment! If you don’t complete the ECCP, you’ll start CHEM 150 with a maximum grade of 97%.
