School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Film & Media Management: Concentration under BBA

The Concentration in Film and Media Management is a collaborative effort between the Department of Film and Media Studies in Emory College and the Goizueta Business School BBA Program. This integrated set of curricular offerings provides knowledge, hands-on skills, and industry experiences for BA and BBA students interested in pursuing film and media as a postgraduate or professional option.

Participation in the concentration is limited to BBA students and Film and Media Studies students with a serious interest in working in film and entertainment. During the junior and senior year, in addition to pursuing their own majors, students admitted to the concentration complete two core courses in the non-major program, two electives from a list of relevant choices, and one senior capstone. Additional seminars, networking events, industry speakers, and professional opportunities augment the resources available to concentration students.

The purpose of the concentration is to provide students with knowledge, competencies and experiences directed towards pursuing film or media as a post-graduate or professional option.

BBA students who complete this concentration will acquire grounding that will enable them to understand film and media in its historical and contemporary context as an evolving narrative form.
Film Studies students who complete this concentration will acquire grounding that will enable them to understand the infrastructure and market mechanisms that support the creation and distribution of media content.
All students will have the opportunity to pursue industry-related electives drawn from business and film disciplines. Finally, students will participate in a capstone course that will give them the opportunity to synthesize and validate their evolving perspectives in both an academic and an applied environment.
This concentration is collaboration between the Department of Film and Media Studies in Emory College and the Goizueta Business School BBA Program.

Participation is limited to BBA students and students who are film studies majors.

Students should apply for the Film and Media Management Concentration by the start of the spring semester of their sophomore year. Admission is determined by the concentration's co-directors
