School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: English Literature

With close to 300 majors and minors and over 30 faculty members, we are the largest humanities department at Emory.  Our top-ranked Creative Writing program benefits from faculty who are major voices in poetry, fiction, and creative non-fiction, and our highly selective PhD program has placed scholars in faculty around the United States and internationally and in curatorial positions in distinguished archival collections.  Faculty in our writing program teach courses in technical writing, oral and visual communication, writing for interactive media, and rhetorical theory.  They also oversee Emory’s first-year writing program and Writing Across Emory (WAE), the College’s writing across the curriculum program. 

Many of our scholars bring interdisciplinary perspectives to fields such as African American studies, literature & science, LatinX studies, digital humanities, disability studies, Irish studies, studies in gender and sexuality, psychoanalysis, postcolonial studies, rhetorical genre studies, and philosophical and theoretical approaches to literature.   We regularly host visiting writers and scholars from around the world, most prominently in our biennial Ellmann lecture series, and our research and teaching draws on the world-class archives held in Emory’s Rose Library.  

We invite you to explore our faculty and graduate student profiles,  curriculum, and programming on this site.
Welcome to the English Department at Emory University. As an English major at Emory you will enjoy a program that is at once intellectually stimulating and practically valuable. The Major has three fundamental emphases: the study of literatures written in English; the development of critical, analytic, and interpretive skills in reading texts; and the cultivation of effective and elegant writing.

Overview
The study of literatures in English--including literature of the Americas, the British Isles, Asia, and Africa--gives one a greater understanding of the role language plays in shaping the world. Working closely with a variety of texts, you will develop critical, analytical and interpretive skills needed to read with intellectual awareness and aesthetic sensitivity. These skills develop further through the major's emphasis on writing. English majors have many opportunities to focus on research and writing, and they learn how to communicate ideas clearly and convincingly. By reading and writing about literature you have the opportunity to extend your understanding of your own and others' cultures at the same time as you enhance practical linguistic abilities that can serve you in a variety of professional and academic settings.


