School Name: Emory
Department: College of Arts and Sciences
Major: Comparative Literature

Comparative Literature (commonly abbreviated as “Comp. Lit.”) offers students the opportunity to pursue their love of literature beyond national and disciplinary boundaries. It situates the study of literature in a 21st century global context that takes account of cultural and linguistic diversity as well as changing technologies and new media. Majors study literary texts in at least one language other than English, delving into works from the ancient as well as the modern world, and exploring cultural productions from non-Western traditions as well as the so-called “great books” of the West.  Students study literature’s intersections with other media and disciplines such as philosophy, religion, history, law, film studies, and psychoanalysis, and take courses in areas as varied as Exemplary Novels, French poetry, Russian Film, Literature & Justice, Postcolonial Popular Culture, Disaster Literature or Latin American Magical Realism. Comp. Lit. students also explore important theoretical questions: How do we define the human? How does language function in society? What is the relationship between ethics and religion? How do new technologies require us to rethink social, political, and ethical issues? How do we understand the relationship between history (events that happened) and memory (how we remember those events).
The Comp. Lit. major requires five core courses:  “Major Texts: Reading Comparatively”; “Major Texts: Literatures, Genres, Media”; "Methods of Interpretation"; "Literary Theory"; and a senior seminar.  The remaining five required courses include two courses in a language other than English (200-level or above) and three literature electives (300-level or above).  Beyond this curriculum, Comp. Lit. majors enjoy the student-run Theory Reading Group, “Café Chocolat” for more informal get-togethers, and an undergrad Comp. Lit. Colloquium featuring the best papers written in Comp. Lit. Courses, judged by a panel of graduate students and faculty.
In addition to these special research options, the department is pleased to offer its undergraduates regular opportunities for stimulating intellectual and social.
The Annual Undergraduate Colloquium, aims to reflect the diverse and innovative research that undergraduate students are conducting at Emory. Undergraduate paper selection for the Colloquium is extremely competitive and represents a high recognition of an undergraduate's work by the Department. This opportunity provides undergraduates with the experience of presenting a conference paper to their peer comparative literature majors, as well as with graduate students and professors in the field.
The Graduate Mentor Committee organizes a series of extracurricular events throughout the year where students at all levels can meet and interact with each other outside the formal classroom setting.  Events such as Trivia Night, Film Night, and the Performance Night provide a space for faculty members, graduate students, and undergraduate students to mix and mingle over food, drinks, and sparkling conversation.  See our events page for upcoming dates and times.

