School Name: Emory
Department: Department of French and Italian
Major: Italian Studies 


The Italian Studies program is an interdisciplinary program based in the Department of French and Italian, with academic links to several other Emory College of Arts and Sciences departments. The program takes pride in the close faculty/student teaching and mentoring relationships fostered. We offer a wide range of excellent study abroad programs in Italy, both during the summer as well as during the Fall and Spring semesters.
An active events calendar, seminars with distinguished visiting scholars, and unparalleled study-abroad opportunities provide an exciting intellectual climate as well as a foundation for professional development in the U.S. and abroad. The Italian Studies Faculty are award-winning teachers with a creative interdisciplinary focus including food studies, Mediterranean Studies, and Italy in a global world.
Examples of courses:
ITAL 101 - Language & Culture, Elem I
This introductory course is for students who have no prior study of the Italian language. ITAL101 is designed to help students build basic communication skills in Italian. We emphasize all four language skills:speaking, listening, reading, and writing as well as cross-cultural competency.
ITAL 102 - Language & Culture, Elem. II
This course focuses on elementary communication skills through a systematic introduction to the basic grammatical patterns and vocabulary of the Italian language. The goal is to widen the fundamental skills of listening comprehension, speaking, reading and writing within a cultural context.
ITAL 110 - Intensive Elementary Italian
Innovative eBook Italian Virtual Class: engaging approach to language learning, full immersion in Italian culture, literature and art with authentic materials; development of analytical, critical skills, cross-cultural competency and higher than norm linguistic fluency.
ITAL 170 - Intro to Italian Studies I
Interdisciplinary survey I: antiquity to Humanism. Investigating a variety of Italian culture topics course examines intersections of Liberal Arts perspectives to enhance global understanding of others and self, critical reasoning skills and cross-cultural awareness fostered. In English, no pre-req.
ITAL 170W - Intro to alian Studies I
Interdisciplinary survey I: antiquity to Humanism. Investigating a variety of Italian culture topics course examines intersections of Liberal Arts perspectives to enhance global understanding of others and self, critical reasoning skills and cross-cultural awareness fostered. In English, no pre-req.
ITAL 171 - Intro to Italian Studies II
Interdisciplinary survey II: Humanism to 21st century. Investigating variety of Italian culture topics course examines intersections of Liberal Arts perspectives to enhance global understanding of others and self, critical reasoning skills. cross-cultural awareness fostered. In English, no pre-req.
ITAL 171W - Intro to Italian Studies II
Interdisciplinary survey II: Humanism to 21st century. Investigating variety of Italian culture topics course examines intersections of Liberal Arts perspectives to enhance global understanding of others and self, critical reasoning skills. cross-cultural awareness fostered. In English, no pre-req.
ITAL 190 - Freshmen Seminar: Italian
Seminar designed to engage freshmen in aspects of inquiry and research into areas of Italian culture through mutual exploration of subject matter. Primary mode of classroom discourse is dialogue and group projects.
