School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of Philosophy
Major: Philosophy


The Philosophy Department at Georgetown University is a pluralistic department that contributes centrally to the University’s core commitments to “justice and the common good, our intellectual openness, and our international character.” We value and promote a variety of approaches to philosophical reflection, including traditional research in contemporary philosophical problems, the study of the history of philosophy, practically engaged and public-facing philosophy, all in both the Anglophone and international linguistic traditions. We have broad strengths in traditional fields of philosophical inquiry, including ethical theory and practical ethics (especially bioethics), social and political philosophy, philosophy of language, epistemology, and the Catholic philosophical tradition. We are currently building a focus in philosophical approaches to race, as well as philosophical traditions rooted in the thought of disadvantaged or marginalized racial groups.

The Georgetown University Department of Philosophy offers both undergraduate and graduate programs of study.

Consistent with the educational mission of Georgetown University, each undergraduate takes two courses in Philosophy (either “Introduction to Philosophy” or “Introduction to Ethics”; as well as a second course chosen from an extensive range of philosophical topics). With these introductory courses, we provide a unique undergraduate experience that promotes Georgetown’s tradition as an American, Catholic, and Jesuit University, and our introductory offerings (collectively, if not individually) address the distinctively philosophical dimensions of problems of God and transcendence, freedom and intersubjectivity, personal morality and the moral significance of social institutions, and the virtues that are required to live well in a pluralistic democratic society. With the further courses that are required for the undergraduate major, we hope to produce liberally educated women and men who possess basic cultural literacy, who are capable of articulate and logical reflection on the fundamental problems of human existence, and who can take their place as citizens capable of critically evaluating arguments which bear on public affairs.

The Department also offers a PhD in Philosophy that is designed to produce careful, sophisticated, and broadly educated teachers and scholars. Our goal is to train our students to readily understand intelligent viewpoints that differ from their own, to see the value of various approaches to Philosophy, and to have the technical skills (logical, linguistic, exegetical, and phenomenological) that will allow them to solve complex problems and to make important contributions to Philosophy as an academic discipline.

The long-term objective of the undergraduate Philosophy program is to produce liberally educated women and men who possess basic cultural literacy, who are capable of articulate and logical reflection on the fundamental problems of human existence and who can take their place as citizens capable of critically evaluating arguments which bear on public affairs. Also, because Georgetown is a Catholic university, Georgetown students should learn to think in depth about the problems posed by a life of faith. This objective is furthered by the study of Philosophy, because it is a systematic study of ideas and issues, a reasoned pursuit of fundamental truths, a quest for a comprehensive understanding of the world, a study of principles of conduct, and much more. Every domain of human experience raises questions to which its techniques and theories apply, and its methods may be used in the study of any subject or the pursuit of any vocation. Our goal is to equip majors and minors not just with skills for a trade or profession, but with important skills for living with themselves from day to day.

Toward this end, the shorter-term objectives of our program are threefold: to endow the student with philosophical skills, philosophical literacy, and the opportunity to do original philosophical research. The first of these objectives is based on the fact that Philosophy is a discipline requiring skills in reasoning and writing. Our goal is to help students to develop the abilities to:

Read texts closely
Analyze positions critically
Uncover tacit presuppositions
Construct cogent arguments
Explain and argue in clear persuasive writing
Although every course in our program is designed to further these goals, two requirements for majors are specifically geared toward the above: a logic course and a text seminar wherein students spend a semester reading an important text in philosophy (e.g. Hobbes’s Leviathan).

The second shorter-term objective is to endow the student with philosophical literacy, that is, an acquaintance with the thought of major philosophers both then and now, and with many of philosophy’s perennial problems. Towards that end, majors are required to take two courses, the history of ancient and medieval philosophy, and the history of modern philosophy. Besides logic and history of philosophy, the other major fields of philosophy are ethics, metaphysics and epistemology. Our goal is to offer courses in at least one of these three every semester. We also try to offer at least one course each semester in important subfields of philosophy such as social and political philosophy, philosophy of language, philosophy of science, philosophy of mind, philosophy of religion, philosophy of law, aesthetics, existentialism, phenomenology, and post-Kantian European philosophy.

The third objective is to offer students the opportunity to do original philosophical research. Toward this end, we have an honors program in which students may undertake the writing of an honors thesis.

As an expression of its Jesuit, Catholic identity, Georgetown University requires all undergraduate students to complete two courses in philosophy. In fulfilling what it understands to be the goals of this requirement, the Philosophy Department is committed to providing core courses that

offer effective introductions to the discipline of philosophy, including the philosophical study of ethics;
enhance students’ ability to enter imaginatively into rival viewpoints and diverse perspectives; and
strengthen students’ development as responsible citizens of society.
Philosophy is an ancient discipline with an enormous variety of subject areas and methodologies. The Georgetown University Philosophy Department is deliberately pluralistic, representing many major approaches to philosophy. Introductory courses in philosophy reflect this pluralism, engaging students in the study of a range of philosophical theories and methods. While the specific philosophical topics individual students study will depend on the particular courses they take, all core courses in philosophy seek to engage students in the disciplined and thoughtful examination of perennial philosophical questions concerning fundamental issues such as the possibility of human freedom, the existence and transcendence of God, the nature of knowledge and rationality, the rational justification of moral commitments, and the demands of social justice. In supporting Georgetown’s tradition as a Catholic and Jesuit university, the Philosophy Department also ensures that the Catholic philosophical tradition is well-represented in its core offerings. After having completed their core requirements in philosophy, students will be familiar with diverse philosophical theories and methods and a broad range of philosophical issues, and they will have examined the contributions of important figures in the history of philosophy. They will also be able to:

1. Understand what philosophy is, how it differs from other academic disciplines, and what its primary areas of inquiry are.

2. Understand and construct arguments. Philosophy provides training in the construction of good argumentation (reasoning from premises to a conclusion). Students learn to articulate and defend their own views, to understand and appreciate competing views, and to indicate clearly and forcefully why their views are preferable to alternatives. They hone basic skills of reasoning – the ability to draw valid inferences and to recognize invalid ones, to identify and evaluate their own and others’ background assumptions, and to grasp the implications and practical conclusions that follow from a claim or viewpoint being considered. Fair-minded and careful argumentation can lead to valuable insight into the respective strengths and weaknesses of alternative, even opposing views, and sometimes to the discovery of common ground between them.

3. Describe and analyze complex problems. The study of philosophy develops and sharpens students’ problem-solving skills. Students learn to state problems clearly and precisely, break complex problems into manageable parts, formulate helpful questions, and assess the relevance of data or information to a case at hand. Students develop the ability to analyze how presuppositions, interpretive approaches, and conceptual or theoretical assumptions are shaping the problem-solving process, and to capture and explain the virtues of alternative approaches. Students are also encouraged to pursue open-minded and disciplined inquiry into difficult fundamental questions that admit of no ready answers or clear-cut solutions.

4. Read, write and speak effectively. In studying philosophy, students develop the capacity to interpret, analyze, and understand challenging texts. They learn to formulate clear definitions, to work effectively with concepts, and to organize their ideas logically. Dialogue is central to the advancement of philosophical reasoning and reflection; thus, the ability to communicate effectively with others is crucial. In thinking philosophically, students develop their capacity to express their ideas, insights and questions, and to listen openly to others, seeking to understand perspectives different from their own. They learn to craft examples and draw analogies that can help illuminate general, abstract claims.

5. Engage critically and constructively with moral problems and decisions. Studying ethical problems philosophically provides essential clarity and insight into how they might be resolved. The tools of philosophy help students develop and articulate their own ethical views and the reasons supporting those views. By considering objections to their arguments and by listening to classmates who hold different ethical positions, students learn to identify points of agreement and disagreement and to engage in constructive dialogue about complicated moral issues.

6. Apply philosophical analysis, argumentation, and critical reflection to the study of other disciplines. In studying philosophy, students are exposed to philosophical examinations of other disciplines through philosophy of science, philosophy of law, political philosophy, bioethics and global health, philosophy of history, philosophy of mind, philosophy of language, and other interdisciplinary subfields of philosophy.


