School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of Mathematics and Statistics
Major: Mathematics


Georgetown University’s Department of Mathematics & Statistics promotes research in both pure and applied mathematics as well as in statistics. Our faculty prides itself on its innovative instruction and curriculum, resulting in a close working relationship between students and faculty.

We offer two majors, an A.B. and a B.S in Mathematics in addition to minors in Mathematics and in Statistics. We do accept appropriate Advanced Placement credit. Questions about our undergraduate program including approval of courses should be addressed to Professor Michael Raney, Director of Undergraduate Studies.

The graduate Master of Science in Mathematics & Statistics program is now in its 14th year and has reached a stable size of over 90 students. As part of the Masters Program, undergraduates can apply for the 5-Year Program in which they can obtain a Masters degree with one additional year of school. 

This mission of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics is very much aligned with the mission of Georgetown University, particularly affirming the interconnection of teaching and research and fostering a close relationship between faculty and students in pursuit of common goals.

We strive to make an impact on the disciplines of mathematics and statistics and on the broader society through the following goals:

internationally recognized research in pure and applied mathematics and statistics,
dedicated teaching that empowers undergraduate and graduate students to formulate and solve mathematical and statistical problems and communicate the solutions and their significance,
training a diverse group of problem solvers who will be in a position to choose amongst the many opportunities available to professionals with well-developed quantitative skills, and
promoting the success of a diverse group of faculty at all levels, through mentoring, material support and collegial interactions that enhance research and teaching.
Consisting of undergraduate and graduate studies, we offer undergraduate majors leading to a Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, a Major with Honors, and an undergraduate minor in Mathematics.  For graduate studies, we offer a graduate program leading to a Master of Science in Mathematics and Statistics.

Graduate Mission Statement
The primary mission of the MS degree program in Mathematics and Statistics is to prepare students for professional careers in disciplines which make use of the mathematical and statistical sciences. A secondary mission is to enable students to pursue more advanced study, say at the PhD level, in applied mathematics, statistics, and related areas.

Learning Goals

Master the subject material in the four required core courses that form the academic pillars of the program: Probability, Applied Mathematics, Statistics, and Numerical Analysis.
Develop a client-based and practical perspective concerning applied mathematics and statistics at the MS level, with a view towards solving real-world modeling and computational problems that arise in realistic situations.
Obtain hands-on experience in client-based operations through internships and consulting seminars, thereby developing the ability to collaborate with individuals whose training lies in other disciplines.
Become sufficiently proficient in the core academic material to permit further study at the Ph.D. level in applied mathematics, statistics, and related areas.
Learning Outcomes

Compete successfully for internship and employment positions in government, industry, and non-profit organizations.
Develop a predisposition toward application areas such as physical sciences, financial services, and social sciences and have the knowledge, experience, and motivation to bring the tools of mathematics and statistics to bear on real-world problems.
Collaborate competently with non-expert users of applied mathematics and statistics.
Foster an intellectual curiosity and flexibility to grow with developing technology and new methods mathematics and statistics.


