School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of Art and Art History
Major: Art

The Department of Art and Art History invites all students to explore the worlds of creating, interpreting, and exhibiting art, which has always stood near the heart of human culture and inquiry. Our students and faculty pursue creative work and research to illuminate art’s history and future with rigor, nuance, and imagination.

Our disciplines deeply embody Georgetown University’s dedication to creating and communicating knowledge. Art can articulate and interpret ideas about ourselves, communities, histories, beliefs, politics, and environments in ways that are exceptionally direct. Students work with objects, make things, and grapple with forms and ideas across time and geography. Visual literacy and cultural awareness are essential to informed, reflective, and effective engagement in the modern world.

The Department offers a BA in Art (Studio Practice) and in Art History, and a Master of Arts in Art and Museum Studies. Each year we welcome more than 600 students in a great variety of courses, ranging from Animation through Zen Buddhist Art. All of our classes are small enough to allow for intensive instruction and wide-ranging discussion.

Our students and faculty regularly study and work in Washington’s extraordinary museums and galleries, including our own Maria and Alberto de la Cruz Art Gallery and Lucille M. and Richard F.X. Spagnuolo Gallery.

Georgetown’s Art Program focuses on the individual student’s experiential development of the imagination and creative thinking processes as an integrating force in the liberal arts curriculum. The program reflects Georgetown’s aim to educate the whole person.

To fulfill the mission of the comprehensive curriculum, the department offers the core components of traditional disciplines — painting, drawing, sculpture and printmaking, and has expanded into the realms of photography and electronic media. In recent years the department has been the beneficiary of a new photography darkroom and the Napolitano Digital Art Studio, a state-of-the-art computer art classroom.

Access to the major artistic works is an important synergistic component of the program. Georgetown is uniquely rich in surrounding artistic resources. The museums and galleries in the Washington area support by example understanding of technique and the establishment of personal goals.



