School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of German
Major: German

Located in Washington, DC, at the intersection of transatlantic political and cultural crosscurrents, Georgetown University offers a uniquely diverse, interdisciplinary context for studying German language, literature, and culture.

Our department’s mission comes alive in our excellent graduate and undergraduate programs. We are also committed to incorporating diversity at all levels of our curriculum.

At the undergraduate level, our internationally recognized curriculum helps students to become competent and culturally literate users of German while pursuing a German major or minor.

At the graduate level, we offer a challenging yet supportive environment for pursuing an MA or PhD in German and, with the BMW Center for German and European Studies, the joint MAGES/PhD program.

Faculty members in the German Department are engaged in a range of research projects and topics, many of which address cross-disciplinary issues, such as gender and performance, notions of belonging and Heimat, visual culture and digital humanities, cultural negotiations of economic concepts, globalization, and the role of multiple literacies in Second Language Acquisition.

The Department is also proud to foster intellectual life outside the classroom by inviting speakers and hosting an annual Max Kade professor from a German-speaking country, alternating between a scholar and a writer-in-residence.

The Department aims to enable students to become competent and culturally literate users of German who can employ the language in a range of intellectual and professional contexts and who can also draw from it personal enrichment and enjoyment. It does so by engaging students with diverse content areas within an integrated curriculum whose pedagogies reflect the best available knowledge regarding the multiple links among language, culture, and ways of knowing.

The German Department is a part of the Faculty of Languages and Linguistics in Georgetown College and offers an undergraduate major leading to a BA in German. Students from across campus can also declare a minor in German.

German majors often also study another language. Students may minor or double major in another language (e.g., German and Japanese, German and French) or in any of the departmental disciplines offered by Georgetown College (e.g., with History, Psychology, Government, Theology). They have available to them a range of area studies, certificate programs (particularly the Certificate in European Studies), and a number of interdisciplinary minors, such as the Program on Justice and Peace, Social and Political Thought, and the Women’s Studies program. 

Those studying for the BA may also complete the German Major with Business Coursework, concentrating in either accounting, finance, management, marketing, or international business. 

Majors are required and other students are strongly encouraged to have a significant study abroad experience during their studies either through the German Department’s Trier Summer Program or through one of the study abroad sites at a German-language university. Georgetown presently has formal arrangements with the Universities of Berlin, Munich, Tübingen, and Vienna. 



