School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of French and Francophone Studies
Major: French

Welcome to the Department of French and Francophone Studies at Georgetown University—one of the largest and most diverse in the United States. As part of the Faculty of Languages and Linguistics of Georgetown College, we offer a wide-range of opportunities for undergraduate study of France and the French-speaking world. Our large and diverse department focuses on the integration of French language learning at all levels with a dynamic access to France and the rest of the Francophone world.

Our full and part-time faculty consist of specialists in literature, culture, and the anthropology of France from the middle-ages to the present, second-language learning and linguistics, French for business and economic purposes, theater studies, and gender studies. In addition to metropolitan France, our faculty specialize in specific areas of the Francophone world, including French-speaking Africa, Belgium, Canada, and the Caribbean. The Department of French and Francophone Studies is committed to the enhancement and integration of language learning with a dynamic access to multiple facets of France and the Francophone world.

In a typical academic year we have more than 1,300 undergraduates enrolled in our courses. The Department of French and Francophone Studies takes pride in providing a strong personalized system in which students work closely with both professors and deans to design four-year academic programs best suited to meet their personal and professional desires and needs. Our recent graduates have gone on to advanced degree work and employment in many areas including law, business, medicine, social administration, sales, public relations, and education. With the increasing internationalization of our social framework, specialization in a language—often in conjunction with another discipline—has become even more necessary and valuable.

The Department of French and Francophone Studies at Georgetown University offers both a major and a minor program in French, a major with Business coursework and certificates in African Studies and European Studies. The department also certifies language proficiency for the School of Foreign Service.

The Department of French and Francophone Studies is part of the Faculty of Languages and Linguistics (FLL) of Georgetown College, an academic entity that throughout its distinguished institutional history has promoted the study and understanding of a wide array of international languages, literatures, and cultures. Within the FLL, ours is a large and diverse undergraduate department that focuses on the integration of language learning with a dynamic access to multiple facets of France and the Francophone world. Our international faculty includes experts in metropolitan France, Sub-Saharan and North Africa, French-Speaking Canada, Belgium, and the Caribbean.

The Department of French and Francophone Studies is committed to the enhancement – through the development of intercultural literacy in the broadest sense – of a liberal arts education at once ethically based and globally contextualized, one that encourages ongoing intellectual questioning, social awareness, and personal and professional growth. Indeed, Georgetown Department of French and Francophone Studies alumni have successfully pursued careers in education, publishing, law, medicine, government, and business.



