School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of Government
Major: Government

The Department of Government is an open, dynamic, and publicly engaged community of scholars, students, and professional staff. We believe in the ideal of scholarship for its own sake but are also deeply committed to the role of cutting-edge research in informing politics and public life

The department has a strong tradition in the major subfields of political science: American politics, political theory, international relations, comparative politics, and political economy. Our Ph.D. program trains new generations of scholars to tackle some of the most pressing conundrums in political and social life. They go on to become academics in the world’s leading colleges and universities as well as to positions of influence in government and global affairs. Our four master’s degrees offer challenging, policy-oriented programs focused on such issues as democracy, conflict, development, and U.S. politics at the federal, state, and local levels. Through jointly appointed faculty and shared programming, the department has strong links to Georgetown’s other major units concerned with politics and policy: the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, the McCourt School of Public Policy, and the Georgetown Law Center.

Our position in Washington, DC—an international city, the national capital, and a vibrant urban metropolis with its own cultures and histories—offers our students an unrivaled opportunity to engage directly in political life. Whether attending a Supreme Court session, interning at the World Bank, reading under the dome of the Library of Congress, or working to counter poverty in a DC neighborhood, our students have the opportunity to build a life that values both intellectual exploration and deep engagement with the world.

Overview
A degree in Government equips students with theoretical and practical knowledge concerning many different dimensions of politics, including:

Domestic political institutions and processes in the United States and throughout the world;
International and transnational relations; and
The scope and nature of ethics, justice, rights, and obligations in political life.
Courses in the Department are located in one (or more) of four subfields:

American Government;
Comparative Government;
International Relations; and
Political Theory.
The Department seeks to provide its students with more than extensive knowledge of political institutions and processes; it aims to arm them with additional tools that help them to better evaluate, advance, and refute political arguments. These tools involve logical analysis, causal inference, research skills, and effective communication of ideas.

A degree in Government cultivates relevant skills in a number of different ways. Most Government courses require students to practice and develop analytic writing skills — whether in the form of in-class essays, out-of-class essays, or research papers. Students also must complete at least one Department Seminar. These seminars, which majors usually take during their junior or senior years, are limited to fifteen participants and involve significant writing assignments geared toward developing a student’s skills under the close supervision of a faculty member or advanced graduate student.

The Government Department takes a pluralistic approach to methodological issues; it aims to instill its students with an understanding of a variety of different forms of rigorous causal and logical analysis. Majors should therefore expect exposure to various forms of statistical inference, singular causal analysis, deductive reasoning, and conceptual analysis.

Many students take classes on statistical techniques and go on to more extensive work with–or even the development of–data sets on topics that interest them. Others focus on the explanation of specific historical events and develop skills in, for example, process tracing, the identification and vetting of causal mechanisms, and qualitative counterfactual analysis. Some students prefer to focus on methods appropriate for the assessment of normative claims about political institutions, justice, and other important issues in political theory.

Through the required introductory courses, students develop competency in multiple methodologies. In order to ensure a thorough understanding of key normative and ethical concerns in political life, the Department requires students to take an upper-level course in political theory. This requirement not only reflects Georgetown’s Jesuit traditions, but the long history of student and alumni engagement with domestic and international politics.

In all of these respects, a Government degree not only assists students to become better national and global citizens, but also provides them with a foundation for leadership in their chosen vocations.

Comprehensive information about the undergraduate program can be found in the Undergraduate Program Handbook.

Numbering System and Grades
The Government Department has adopted a new numbering system for undergraduate courses starting Fall 2014. The reason for this change is to provide more structure and transparency to our course offerings.

The courses have been renumbered according to the following scheme:
000-level: introductory courses

GOVT 020 US Political Systems (formerly GOVT 008)
GOVT 040 Comparative Political Systems (formerly GOVT 121)
GOVT 060 International Relations (formerly GOVT 006)
GOVT 080 Elements of Political Theory (formerly GOVT 117)


100- and 200-level: lecture courses
300-level: department seminars
400-level: advanced lectures and seminars

Within each level, the courses are grouped by field, as follows:
200-219 Non-field / Offered on irregular basis
220-239 American Government (AG)
240-259 Comparative Government (CG)
260-279 International Relations (IR)
280-299 Political Theory (PT)

Grades in the Department of Government reflect high standards and university norms.  For the four introductory courses, no more than 40 percent of the grades will be A-minus or higher.  For other undergraduate level courses, the expectation is that no more than 50 percent of grades will be A-minus or higher.  Classes with substantially higher percentage of A-minus and higher grades will be reviewed by the Department.  In certain cases, such as Honors courses or courses with demonstrated high levels of effort and learning, grading percentages may go higher, but the basis for these higher grades will need to be documented.



