School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of Economics
Major: Economics

Following guidance from Georgetown University and the District of Columbia, the Economics Department will be operating on a revised schedule.

Some classes will have optional in-person components; all classes will have an on-line option.  The delivery of classes will be organized so that no students will be disadvantaged. Those following from remote locations will have a full complement of materials (lectures and recitations included of course), and those present in D.C. on a student visa will be able to fulfill all the conditions that are required by their physical presence in the United States. Class materials will be available asynchronously to accommodate students studying in remote locations.
All scheduled seminars will take place on-line. 

See the individual class and seminar listings for details and this page for Georgetown University’s COVID-19 responses.

Who’s New in the 2020 – 2021 Course Schedule

David Burk is a new Assistant Teaching Professor in the Department of Economics. Before coming to Georgetown full-time, he worked as an economist at the Congressional Budget Office, where he studied various policies and programs, including the minimum wage and federal student loans. He obtained his PhD from the University of Chicago. As well as Principles of Microeconomics which he is teaching both this fall and in the spring, he will teach two higher level electives in the Spring, Public Sector Economics and Time Series Econometrics.


Minsu Chang joined the Department of Economics last year as an Assistant Professor. She obtained her PhD from the University of Pennsylvania. Her research focuses on quantitative macroeconomics, econometrics, household finance, and family economics. She is currently teaching a course for the PhD students and will teach Intermediate Macroeconomics for the second time this Spring.

Louise Laage
Louise Laage is a new Assistant Professor in the Department of Economics of Georgetown University. She obtained her PhD from Yale University where she received multiple fellowships and awards, including the Carl Arvid Anderson Fellowship.  Her field of research is econometrics. She is currently teaching Econometrics to the Masters students and will teach Intro to Econometrics in the Spring.


Toshihiko (Toshi) Mukoyama has been a Professor at the Department of Economics, Georgetown University since 2018. He is a popular teacher and research advisor in the Masters and PhD programs, and will be teaching a GU undergraduate course for the first time this spring. He obtained his Ph.D. in Economics from University of Rochester and is the recipient of the 2018 Nakahara Prize for the best Japanese economist under the age of 45. Before Georgetown, Professor Mukoyama worked at Concordia University and the University of Virginia, where he taught at undergraduate, Masters, and PhD levels. He has also worked at the Federal Reserve Board in the Trade and Financial Studies Section, International Finance Division. His main research area is macroeconomics. His research topics include labor market dynamics, economic growth, and business cycles. Professor Mukoyama will teach Intermediate Macroeconomics in the Spring.


Margit Reischer joined the Department of Economics as an Assistant Professor after completing her postdoctoral research at Columbia Business School, Columbia University. She received her Ph.D. from the University of Cambridge in 2019. She is an economist interested in Macroeconomics, Production Networks and Applied Macroeconometrics. She is currently teaching Intermediate Macroeconomics and a PhD-Topics class this fall.

Main Contacts
Thomas Lewis serves as the Undergraduate Coordinator. Please contact him first with any questions, or for signing forms, related to declaring a Major or a Minor in Economics, Study Abroad, and Transfer Credits. His office hours are Mondays through Fridays from 9:30-11:30 am and 1:30-5:00 pm in ICC 580-A.
Professor Rogers answers emails Monday through Friday from 9 to 10 am.  She holds office hours via Zoom, Monday through Friday from 10 to 11 am.  Sign up for an appointment (GU Netids only) in Google Sheets.
Follow us on Twitter @GUEconUndergrad for announcements on various topics including jobs, internships, publication opportunities and conferences.  
Majoring or Minoring in Economics
Credit for Courses Outside GU Economics Department: AP credit, Transfer credit, Electives, and Study Abroad.
Learning Goals of the Undergraduate Program in Economics details the expectations for our students.
Writing in the Major describes our integrated writing requirement for economics majors.
Major Requirements
Economics (COL)
Political Economy (COL)
International Economics (SFS)
International Political Economy (SFS)
Minor Requirements
Minor in Economics (COL, MSB, NHS, SFS)
Graduating with Honors
Economics Majors (COL)
SFS-IECO (SFS)
SFS-IPEC (SFS)



