School Name: Georgetown
Department: Department of Sociology
Major: Sociology

The Department of Sociology at Georgetown University brings together faculty, postdoctoral fellows and students together to study and understand local, national and global challenges and the forces that shape the human experience. We are committed to the power of the sociological imagination, and to discovering new solutions to complex social issues in society. We promote ways of imagining and re-imagining the common good and encourage the use of knowledge and skills to realize a more just society. We offer students opportunities to learn and apply these skills through research and experiential learning activities in D.C. and beyond.

Ever wonder what studying sociology can lead you to? 
Amanda S. C. Gorman, the youngest inaugural poet in U.S. history, majored in Sociology at Harvard. On January 20, 2021, at age 22, she shared her poetry at President Biden’s Inaugural Ceremony. She has written for the New York Times and other venues, and she is the author of books of poetry and has a forthcoming children’s book. Alondra Nelson, Professor of Sociology and President of the Social Science Research Council, was appointed by President Biden to the position of Deputy Director for Science and Society in the Office of Science and Technology Policy. This is a new position designed to bring social science expertise into science and technology strategy and policy.  Read more here. 

Vision Statement
The Sociology faculty is a community of scholars with diverse intellectual interests and expertise committed to excellence in teaching and research, and is intellectually innovative and informed, grounded in but not bound by our disciplines.

With students, we are committed to developing scientific, interpretative, and critical capacities for understanding the social and cultural forces that shape the human experience. We strive to foster a lifelong engagement with questions of social justice.

We bring theoretical and methodological rigor to understanding complex social and cultural realities both local and global. We promote ways of imagining and re-imagining the common good and encourage the use of knowledge and skills to realize a more just society.

Mission Statement
The Sociology faculty bring the intellectual traditions of our discipline in a systematic way to the Georgetown curriculum and to our own research and scholarship.

We teach students the scientific, interpretative and critical skills needed to conduct theoretically sound, methodologically rigorous and multifaceted analyses of human social phenomena at both the local and global levels. We offer students direct opportunities to develop and apply those skills through research and experiential learning activities in the Washington, D.C. community.

Through our research–both theoretical and applied, covering a wide range of topics–we advance the collective understanding of complex social and cultural realities. We are committed–through our scholarship, teaching and service–to fostering imaginations that envision a more just society and which recognize the individual’s contribution to the social production and reproduction of just and unjust practices and institutions.

Learning Goals in Sociology 
To support the development of our students’ ability to “think like sociologists,” we have established the following learning goals for our Georgetown sociology students:

To integrate social theory and research; 
To apply sociological concepts to real life conditions; 
To formulate hypotheses; 
To examine critically social issues of importance; 
To make reasoned arguments based on social facts; 
To apply data to test hypotheses; 
To analyze quantitative and qualitative data; 
To interpret already analyzed data to generate conclusions; and
To foster imaginations that envision a more just society.
We see teaching and learning in Sociology to be a critical element of Georgetown’s overall mission of cura personalis (care for the whole person) and preparing men and women to “to be responsible and active participants in civic life, and to live generously in service to others.” A sociological understanding helps students to appreciate how social structure and culture influence life chances. Possessing a sociological imagination to shape individuals’ understandings of their commitment to justice and the common good.

