School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Energy Engineering
Major: Energy Engineering

About the Program
Bachelor of Science (BS)

The Energy Engineering major offered through the Engineering Science Program interweaves the fundamentals of classical and modern physics, chemistry, and mathematics with energy engineering applications. A great strength of the major is its flexibility. The firm base in physics and mathematics is augmented with a selection of engineering course options that prepare the student to tackle the complex energy-related problems faced by society. Because the program emphasizes science and mathematics, students are well-prepared to pursue graduate studies in physics or engineering. Energy engineering is a multidisciplinary field requiring the integration of physical principles with engineering analysis, augmented with the realities of policy and engineering economics. The program incorporates courses from many departments on campus to create a discipline that is rigorously based in science, mathematics, and engineering while addressing a wide variety of environmental issues.

Admission to the Major

Prospective undergraduates in the College of Engineering must apply for admission to one specific major/degree program. For further information, please see the College of Engineering's website.

Admission to engineering via a Change of College application for current UC Berkeley students is very competitive, as there are few open spaces in engineering for students admitted to other colleges at UC Berkeley. For further information regarding a Change of College to Engineering, please see the college's website.

Minor Program

The Energy Engineering minor has arisen as a natural outgrowth of the large amount of energy-related research in the College of Engineering. For a number of years, courses have been developed across the College of Engineering, and the energy engineering minor is designed to coordinate these courses for students who have an interest in systems that are associated with all aspects of energy systems, such as generation, transmission, and consumption. The energy minor, offered through the College of Engineering, is an optional program that encourages coherence in the work students undertake around energy engineering.

For admission to the minor, students must have a minimum overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.0 and have also completed all of the prerequisite courses. For information regarding the prerequisites, please see the Minor Requirements tab on this page.

After completion of the prerequisite courses, students will need to complete and submit a Petition for Admission form to the undergraduate staff adviser. Students must apply at least one semester prior to graduation (i.e., students cannot be on the official degree list at the time of application). Students will also need to submit a copy of their transcript and a course plan at the time of application.

Upon completion of the minor requirements, submit a Petition for Completion of the Undergraduate Minor to the undergraduate staff adviser. This must be completed no later than two weeks prior to the end of the semester.

Other Majors offered by the Engineering Science Program

Engineering Mathematics and Statistics
Engineering Physics
Environmental Engineering Science

VISIT PROGRAM WEBSITE
