School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Environmental Economics and Policy
Major: Environmental Economics and Policy

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA) or Bachelor of Science (BS)

The Rausser College of Natural Resources and the College of Letters & Science jointly offer the undergraduate major in Environmental Economics and Policy (EEP). This major offers an opportunity to explore aspects of economic and political institutions that affect the development and management of natural resources and the environment. The program takes a problem-solving approach to issues involving renewable and fixed natural resources, and it is based on a foundation in microeconomic theory and the economics of resources and the environment. The environmental economics and policy program is offered by the Department of Agricultural and Resource Economics.

This major leads to a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree (for students in Rausser College) or a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree (for students in the College of Letters & Science).

Students who graduate with a degree in environmental economics and policy go on to a variety of jobs or graduate programs.

Admission to the Major

Advice on admission for freshmen and transfer students can be found on Rausser College's Admissions Guide website or Rausser College's Prospective Student website. Freshman students may apply directly to the major or may select Rausser College's undeclared option, and declare the major by the end of their fourth semester. Transfer students may apply directly to the major through Rausser College (B.S. degree) and, if admitted, be declared as EEP majors. Transfers may also apply to the major through the College of Letters & Science (B.A. degree) but, if admitted, will be undeclared.

Information for current Berkeley students who would like to declare the major after admission, including information on a change of major or change of college, please see Chapter 6 of the Rausser College of Natural Resources Undergraduate Student Handbook.

Honors Program

Students with a GPA of 3.6 or higher may enroll in Rausser College's honors program (H196) once they have reached upper division standing. To fulfill the program requirements, students design, conduct, and report on an individual research project, working with a faculty sponsor. For further information about registration for the honors symposium or the honors requirements, please see Rausser College's website.

Minor Program

The minor program offers interested students an opportunity to explore aspects of economic and political institutions that affect the development and management of natural resources and the environment. For information regarding how to declare the minor, please contact the department.

Student Learning GoalsLearning Goals for the Major

Produce graduates with an excellent education in applied economics, with a particular expertise in one of three fields: environmental economics and policy; development economics, or agricultural economics.
Prepare students for successful careers and further studies in graduate programs in a variety of applied fields within economics.
Produce graduates who have the capacity for continued learning throughout their careers and who will have a significant, positive impact on their professions.
Encourage the development of the ethics, skills, and motivation necessary to serve society.
