School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Chicana/o and Latina/o Studies
Major: Chicana/o and Latina/o Studies

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The Chicana/o and Latina/o Studies major offers an interdisciplinary curriculum of academic study that critically examines the historical and contemporary experiences of people of Mexican descent in the context of American society and institutions. Moreover, in light of continuous immigration from Mexico, and now Central America, the Chicano studies major curriculum includes the study of particular aspects of Mexican history, culture, and politics as they bear upon the Chicano community, past and present. Emphasis is given in the major to the student developing a broad knowledge of the Chicano experience. Thus, the major stresses the analysis of the interrelationships in the historical background, cultural patterns, and artistic expressions of the Chicano community in order to acquire a well-rounded, in-depth understanding of the contemporary interface between Chicanos and American society. In this connection, the major strives to incorporate various disciplines in its approach, such as political science, sociology, anthropology, history, literary criticism, and art. Through the interdisciplinary nature of our curriculum, the major is aimed at preparing students for incorporation into the world of work and for a wide range of advanced graduate work and/or professional training in various fields.

Honors Program

The Chicano Studies program provides an option leading to the A.B. degree with honors. Students must have senior standing; a 3.5 University GPA; and a 3.5 GPA in the major. The honors thesis consists of a 6-unit research project (CHICANO H195A and CHICANO H195B). The faculty will establish criteria and grade the project. For more information, see the Chicano Studies adviser in 532 Social Sciences Building.

Minor Program

The department offers a minor in Chicano Studies. For further information regarding how to declare the minor, please see the department's website.

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of Ethnic Studies

Asian American and Asian Diaspora Studies (Major and Minor)
Ethnic Studies (Major and Minor)
Native American Studies (Major and Minor)

Student Learning GoalsLearning Goals of the Major
Undergraduates are expected to obtain the following skills by the time they graduate. These skills belong to five different general areas: historical knowledge, empirical knowledge and quantitative methods, interpretation and qualitative analysis, theory and critique, and community service. They are:

Historical Knowledge

Familiarity with the history of modern Western civilization, including European expansion, conquest, and enslavement.
Specific knowledge of the modern history of at least three different ethno-racial groups.
Acquaintance with debates in historiography, particularly as they relate to the use of history in relation to the understanding of people of color.
For students who specialize in history, proper use of primary and secondary historical sources, as well as the writing of scholarly historical work.


Empirical Knowledge and Quantitative Methods

Familiarity with different methods of gathering empirical data about human communities (anthropological, sociological, etc.).
Knowledge of critical debates about the use and implications of traditional methods of gathering empirical data to obtain knowledge about communities of color.
Identification of proper methods to conduct research, and awareness of the limits and possibilities of such methods.
Creative use, delimitation, and expansion of methods of empirical and quantitative study based on the nature of the problems and questions addressed in the research as well as the object of study.


Interpretation and Qualitative Analysis

Acquaintance with major methods and debates in the humanities.
Familiarity with the art, film, literature, or music of at least three different ethno-racial groups.
Identification of proper methods to conduct research about the creative products of human communities, and ethno-racial communities in particular.
Creative use, delimitation, and expansion of methods of qualitative analysis based on the nature of the problems and questions addressed in the research as well as the object of study.


Theory and Critique

Familiarity with major theories of race and ethnicity and their intersections and constitutive relations with class, gender, and sexuality.
Acquaintance with theories of space and place, including indigeneity, Diaspora, migration, and nation, as well as their use in determining the unit of analysis.
Use of comparison and contrast for evaluating and producing theory as well as for critical analysis.
Creative use of philosophies and theories that are relevant to the understanding and critical analysis of the social contexts, interpersonal dynamics, and multiple creative productions of ethno-racial communities.


Service Learning

Further refinement and enrichment of the above listed skills in settings where the students interact with communities of color and/or their productions.
