School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Anthropology
Major: Anthropology

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The Anthropology major is designed to serve two purposes: to provide a general education in anthropology for students who are pursuing a liberal arts education and to provide preparation for graduate work for students who wish to become professional anthropologists. For both groups of students, anthropology provides communication skills, analytic approaches to human lifeways, and understanding of diversity. Students should select a combination of courses to form a unified plan of study that meets their intellectual interests and fulfills the requirements below.

Declaring the Major

Before you are eligible to declare the major, you must have completed or be in the progress of completing two of the three prerequisite courses and enrolled in the third, with a grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 or higher in all courses intended for the major. For more details regarding the prerequisites, please see the Major Requirements tab on this page.

To declare the major, you will need to complete these three steps:

Meet with the Academic Undergraduate Advisor in 215 Kroeber Hall during office hours.
Bring photocopies of transcripts showing courses satisfying the major prerequisites that you took anywhere other than Berkeley, with the grades you earned.
To prepare, review the description of the program, and the requirements for the major to be prepared to identify how you might fulfill them.

Declare the major as soon as you are eligible. You should declare the major no later than the end of your first semester of junior year. If you are a transfer student, this means you should declare the major during your first semester at UC Berkeley.

Honors Program

The honors thesis in Anthropology is the result of an independently-pursued course of research undertaken by qualified students under the mentorship of a faculty thesis advisor. An overall GPA of 3.5 and a GPA of 3.65 in the major in courses completed at UC Berkeley is required to qualify for the program. The program requires the sponsorship of an anthropology professor as an adviser. This advisor should be identified by the end of the junior year. A second reader must also be identified, in consultation with the thesis advisor. If students want to apply for research funding for summer between junior and senior years, they will benefit by having secured an advisor by January of the junior year. The year-long senior thesis course normally begins in the fall of senior year, but can begin in spring of senior year if justified. The honors courses, ANTHRO H195A and ANTHRO H195B, count as two of the five elective requirements for the major.

Minor Program

The Department of Anthropology offers an undergraduate minor in anthropology. In order to declare the minor, you will need to complete these three steps:

Consult the Undergraduate Advisor in 215 Kroeber about your intentions and interests, who will assist you in identifying courses that fulfill the minor requirements.
Bring photocopies of any transcripts showing any lower division Anthro 1, 2, or 3 courses, that satisfy lower division minor requirements taken anywhere other than Berkeley, with the grades you earned.
Submit the L&S "Completion of the L&S Minor" form by the end of the semester prior to graduation. See L&S Advising website for details.

Student Learning GoalsLearning Goals for the Major

Learning About Anthropology

Understand core concepts in contemporary biological anthropology.
Understand core concepts in contemporary anthropological archaeology.
Understand core concepts in contemporary sociocultural anthropology, including medical anthropology.
Develop understanding of the history of anthropological thought.
Gain experience in fieldwork and the application of theory and methodology.
Develop understanding of the anthropological analysis of visual media and language.


Critical Thinking, Communication, and Analytical Goals

Encourage critical abilities in the analysis of evolutionary, historical, and contemporary situations.
Develop the ability to analyze comprehensively and critically scholarly articles and monographs.
Develop facility in conveying anthropological concepts and debates to public audiences.
Formulate well-organized written and oral arguments supported by evidence.


Learning About the World

Understand the structure and transformation of society and culture past and present.
Analyze regional and cultural diversity in the organization of human societies and the impact of cultural contacts and globalization.
Integrate biological and cultural perspectives on human behavior, social organization, and the environment.
Utilize anthropological concepts and methods to understand the history and forms of diversity in US society.
