School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology
Major: Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The major in Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology introduces students to the histories, societies, languages, literature, and cultures as well as to the archaeology of ancient Egypt and the ancient Near East. Students in this major choose one of two emphases: 

Ancient Near Eastern Art and Archaeology 
Egyptian Art and Archaeology 

Please note, the Egyptian Art and Archaeology major is currently under review for updates and revisions. Please contact the undergraduate major advisor for more information. For specific information regarding degree requirements for each emphasis, please see the Major Requirements tab on this page.

Declaring the Major

Students are recommended to declare the major early in their academic careers. Near Eastern Studies 10 is a required course, which may be taken after declaring the major. Students should consult with the undergraduate student advisor regarding major requirements, transfer credits, and the opportunity to combine two disciplines through a double major study.  

Honors Program

With the consent of the faculty major advisor, students in any of the Near Eastern Studies majors, with an overall grade point average (GPA) of 3.3 or higher in all coursework taken at the University and a GPA of 3.51 or higher in courses completed in the major, may apply for admission to the honors program in their senior year. Students must maintain the required GPA in the major in order to remain eligible for the honors program.

In addition to the GPA requirement, students must submit an honors thesis of at least 20 double-spaced, typewritten pages in their senior year. Students are required to enroll in an Independent Study course (NES 199) in the fall semester and the honors course (NE STUD H195) in the spring semester of their senior year in order to receive credit for the thesis. The honors thesis must be read and evaluated by a two-member committee consisting of a department faculty thesis supervisor and another member of the faculty. The thesis must be deemed to be of at least B+ quality in order to qualify the candidate for graduation with a degree of honors. Students may also receive distinctions of "high honors" or "highest honors" for outstanding thesis papers. 

Minor Program

The Near Eastern Studies Department also offers programs leading to a minor in modern Arabic, Hebrew, Persian, Turkish, or Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Civilizations. 

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of Near Eastern Studies

Ancient Egyptian Near Eastern Art and Archaeology (Major)
Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Civilizations (Major)  
Near Eastern Languages and Literatures (Major)
Ancient Egyptian and Near Eastern Civilizations (Minor)
Arabic (Minor)
Hebrew (Minor)
Persian (Minor)
Turkish (Minor)

Student Learning GoalsLearning Goals for the Major

The ability to analyze architecture, art, and archaeological sites.
Knowledge of the main historical and cultural periods, sites, monuments, and geographies relevant to the chosen field.
Familiarity with the entire area of the Near/Middle East from ancient to modern times.
Awareness of the importance of the Near/Middle East in today’s global society.
The ability to formulate a well-organized argument, supported by evidence.
The ability to critically read and analyze scholarship in the field.
The ability to write and to communicate orally.
