School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Classical Civilizations
Major: Classical Civilizations

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

Classical Civilizations is an interdisciplinary "area studies" major. It provides students with the opportunity to explore the rich diversity of classical antiquity in depth, in company with a relatively small cohort of undergraduates. While language study is an option, the major may be completed entirely in English.  This major serves as excellent preparation for many different careers including law, medicine, teaching, writing, and business, as well as for graduate study in fields such as Anthropology, Archaeology, History, and Art History.

Declaring the Major

To declare the major, meet with the Classics undergraduate advisor, who can help you create a course plan and complete the declaration. You may also want to review the Letters & Science advising site for a guide to declaring a major. For a detailed list of requirements, please see the Major Requirements tab.

Honors Program

Students who are declared majors in Classical Civilizations and who have a GPA (both general and departmental) of at least 3.6 are eligible for honors in Classical Civilizations. The honors program consists of a two-semester course sequence — CLASSIC H195A and CLASSIC H195B that is designed to support the writing of a thesis. This thesis, which will be evaluated by an honors committee of three members, may either build on work in a previous upper division course used in fulfillment of the Classical Civilizations major or may be a newly conceived project. It is due the Monday of the 13th week of the semester in which Classics H195B is taken.

Further details can be found online at Classics Undergraduate Honors. Please consult with a Classics undergraduate adviser to begin planning to participate in honors.

Minor Program

The minor in Classical Civilizations consists of five upper division courses in the Classics Department. Courses or seminars taught by Classics professors in other departments may also be accepted, in consultation with the Undergraduate Faculty Adviser. One of the five courses may be taken outside of the department on campus or abroad with the approval of an Undergraduate Faculty Adviser.

Other Major and Minor Programs Offered by the Department of Classics

Classical Languages (Major only)
Greek (Major and Minor)
Latin (Major and Minor)

Student Learning GoalsMission
The learning goals should be understood in the context of the mission statement of the Department of Classics. The first two components of that statement are especially relevant to undergraduate teaching and are repeated here:

To give students across the University access to the literature, history, archaeology, mythology and philosophy of the ancient Greek and Roman world through an array of undergraduate courses on classical culture in translation. These courses introduce students to texts, artifacts, and ideas that are worth studying both in their own right and as abidingly influential elements in the imagination and history of later cultures. Such study deepens students' understanding of present-day issues by inculcating a sense of historical perspective that takes account of both the differences and the continuities between contemporary and ancient cultures.
To enable undergraduates to immerse themselves in the language and culture of ancient Greece and Rome through its majors in Greek, Latin, and Classical Civilizations. These majors equip students with knowledge and analytical skills that can be applied in many areas (e.g., law, politics, business, biosciences, computer science and media) as well as providing essential preparation for graduate study in classics, comparative literature, philosophy, and other fields.

Learning Goals for the Major

Acquire a basic understanding of ancient Greek and Latin texts (in translation) and/or material culture, including major monuments, sites, and works of art. 
Demonstrate a more advanced knowledge of a particular concentration within classics (classical art and archaeology, or classical history and culture, or Greek language, or Latin language).
Learn to identify and understand key events, institutions, personalities, places, and concepts of ancient Greek and Roman culture.
Gain a critical awareness of continuities and differences between and within cultures and of ideologies of gender, group identity, social status, and political organization.
Demonstrate the ability to interpret texts and material culture and to understand the implications of interpretive methods.
Demonstrate the ability to synthesize a well-organized argument from textual or other evidence and to express it in formal English prose.
