School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Art History
Major: Art History

About the Program
History of Art Major Program

The Major in History of Art is designed to give students solid grounding in the artistic traditions, practices, and contexts that comprise historical and contemporary visuality. Equally, it introduces the discipline’s history, methods, and debates. It prepares students to do independent research, to evaluate evidence, to create coherent and sustained arguments, and to develop skills in academic writing. In a series of increasingly focused courses — lower division, upper division, seminar, and honors program — the major provides a format for students to learn how to analyze and interpret visual, material, and textual evidence from specific cultural settings and historical circumstances. Major requirements are also designed to maximize exposure to different historical periods, geographical regions, and topics while allowing flexibility for students to pursue specific interests by selecting a Focus of Study.

Declaring the Major

To declare the major in the History of Art Department, a student must complete two courses taught in the department and receive a grade of C- or higher in each course. All subsequent courses a student wishes to apply to the major must also receive a grade of C- or higher. Once these prerequisites are met, students may formally petition to declare the major by making an appointment with an Undergraduate Adviser at any time during the fall and spring semesters. (Students in residence at UC Berkeley are strongly urged to complete all lower division requirements and one upper division course by the end of their sophomore year.) Transfer students should plan to take two History of Art courses in their first semester.

Majors who declare early, especially in the sophomore year, enjoy several advantages:

1. A more thorough preparation for seminars and time to study more closely with several members of the faculty.

2. Greater flexibility in coordinating major requirements with College of Letters & Science (L&S) requirements and in planning a sequence of courses that allows for special courses or programs of study, e.g., study abroad, curatorial internships, independent study, a double-major, and the honors program.

3. Time for a generally higher level of study in the senior year, and opportunity to experiment with and prepare for diverse career opportunities.

Honors Program

Students with at least a 3.7 grade point average (GPA) in the History of Art major are eligible for admission into the honors program. Candidates for honors in History of Art are required to complete satisfactorily, within their senior year, an honors thesis consisting of at least two semesters of continuing academic work under faculty supervision (usually a seminar, directed research, or independent study course in the first semester plus, in the second semester, HISTART H195). Those who have completed the program will graduate with honors, high honors, or highest honors in the major depending upon their final GPA in all upper division courses taken to fulfill the major requirements. Please see the department's honors program webpage for further information.

Minor Program

The minor program in the History of Art Department is designed to provide a structured and broad program for those students majoring in other disciplines but with a strong interest in the history of art. For information regarding declaring the minor, please contact the department.

Student Learning GoalsLearning Goals for the Major
Lower Division:

Students are introduced to principles of visual analysis.
Learn to think about images within a historical and cultural context.
Learn to craft coherent arguments about works of art by integrating visual analysis with historical/cultural context.
Develop familiarity with specific sites, objects, artists, cultures, and facts pertaining to them.
Students learn to understand techniques and skills used in the creation of works of art.

Upper Division:

Students’ skills in all of the above are reinforced.
They learn to analyze key texts relating to the artworks under discussion.
Write longer papers that include research.
Understand in depth the dynamic relationship between visual art and its historical, social, cultural, economic, and political contexts.
In small seminars, students pursue independent research projects.
Undertake intensive interrogations of particular problems in the history of art.
In History of Art courses, HISTART 100 and HISTART 101, students come to understand the history and tools of the discipline.
