School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Art Practice
Major: Art Practice

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts

The UC Berkeley Department of Art Practice offers an undergraduate program in studio art which provides a firm grounding in basic techniques and principles while encouraging guided experimentation. Our curriculum provides technical and conceptual training,  and develops critical understandings across a broad range of media and disciplines, including : painting, drawing, printmaking, sculpture (wood, metal, ceramics, and mixed media), photography, installation, performance art, video, animation, sound, and in the newly emerged fields of programming, interactivity, game design, and AR/VR. Art Majors are expected to round out the required studio courses with Art History and Theory classes.

Art Practice students are deeply engaged with their art forms, rigorously committed to their craft, and highly capable of invigorating conceptual, technical, and critical creative research.  Students gain direct experience with a broad range of arts professionals and display spaces, through in-person meetings with artists and curators, and through gallery and museum visits. The department graduates students with potential for significant artistic and cultural impact, with many  pursuing careers as professional artists, designers, and teachers, or in arts-related activities with museums, galleries, arts management, publishing, and artists’ organizations.

 
Course of Study Overview

UC Berkeley’s Department of Art Practice provides rigorous practical, conceptual, critical, and professional training within the context of a world-renowned public research university. The department prepares students for professional lives within contemporary art, while acknowledging that these can take multiple forms and approaches. The department emphasizes an ethical, global scope, with a necessary encouragement of diversity of viewpoints and modes of practice. It offers innovative media-specific, and interdisciplinary courses leading to B.A. and MFA degrees. Studio and seminar courses provide essential skills within conceptual and critical frameworks. The faculty consists of national and internationally recognized artists working across a range of media including painting, drawing, photography, printmaking, sculpture, installation, performance, video, animation, sound, social practice, and the newly emerged fields of programming, game design, and virtual and augmented reality.

Five goals underlie the teaching in the Department of Art:

Acquire and develop practical production skills across different disciplines, e.g. digital media, painting, photography, sculpture, video, etc.

Gain knowledge of art histories and how art discourses and practices have adapted into current understandings and forms.

Gain conceptual and critical skills in generating and evaluating artistic work.

Develop the above skills as part of, or within social and ethical practices.

Translate all the above towards professional and career development.

Declaring the Major

In order to declare the major, you must:

Have an overall GPA of 3.3.
Complete the R&C requirements.
Complete two required studio classes: ART 8 and ART 12
Complete one lower division History of Art course (any)
Submit a portfolio of 12 images (include work from UC Berkeley studio classes).
Submit one letter of recommendation from an art faculty, art lecturer, or art GSI.
A statement of intent 

The application process, including recommendations, is done online. Faculty will review all materials including the portfolio once per semester. Application deadlines can be found on the Art Practice department website. 

 
 
Graduate Program

Practice of Art: Master of Fine Arts (MFA)
