School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Geology
Major: Geology

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

Geology is the science of the Earth—of its minerals and processes, of its origin and evolution. It is a broad science concerned with a vast range of physical phenomena in both space and time, and it requires a broad scientific background. Trained geologists can address a wide range of concerns, including energy supply, mineral resources, and environmental protection. This major provides a strong background in the processes shaping the Earth. It emphasizes quantitative understanding and a strong foundation in the physical sciences.

Declaring the Major

The department strongly encourages students to see the student services advisor as early as possible. Students are accepted into the major with a C average or better. There are a number of scholarships and research opportunities as well as other benefits available to declared majors.

Honors Program

Students in the honors program must fulfill the following additional requirements: 1) Maintain a GPA of at least 3.3 in all courses in the major and an overall GPA of at least 3.3 in the University; and 2) Carry out an individual research or study project, involving at least three units of EPS H195. The project is chosen in consultation with a departmental adviser, and a written report is judged by the student's research supervisor and a departmental adviser.

Minor Program

For information regarding the requirements, please see the Minor Requirements tab. Program planning and confirmation should be done with the undergraduate major adviser and the geology faculty adviser.

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of Earth and Planetary Science

Atmospheric Science (Major and Minor)
Environmental Earth Science (Major and Minor)
Geophysics (Major and Minor)
Marine Science (Major and Minor)
Planetary Science (Major and Minor)

Student Learning GoalsMission
The goal of the Geology BA degree is to provide students with a broad and sound education that provides general and specialized knowledge and is intellectually challenging and stimulating. Upon completion of the degree students are ready to enter graduate school at top-ranking institutions (about half of them choose this path), find employment in the profession (geological and environmental engineering and consulting are major opportunities), continue in public education as teachers, or use their background as a sound basis for a new career such as in public policy, law, or medical sciences.
Learning Goals for the Major
Geology majors acquire knowledge through coursework, laboratory training (expertise in experimental techniques), primary field research, library research, and computer applications, with oral presentations and written reports required in many of our classes.
The undergraduate program provides strong technical training for those who wish to pursue professional careers in the earth, environmental and planetary sciences, as well as training in analytical, creative and critical thinking and communication that serves well those who choose paths in new fields.
Geology is a broad science concerned with a vast range of physical phenomena in both space and time, and thus, it requires a broad scientific background. This track affords a strong foundation in the processes that shape the earth; it emphasizes quantitative understanding and a solid understanding of the physical sciences. Courses in the department emphasize expertise in laboratory skills, field observation, oral student presentations and many involve research projects.
The Geology track is versatile: it is an excellent background for graduate work, and it satisfies the minimum academic requirement for registration as a geologist in the State of California. Students learn from both a theoretical and a practical perspective, through field trips, in courses and through a four-week long summer camp. In summer camp students spend the entire time in the field, making observations, mapping, and interpreting a technical report that describes your findings in relation to published literature on the area.
