School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Integrative Biology
Major: Integrative Biology

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

Students who major in Integrative Biology (IB) will gain a broad and deep knowledge in the biological sciences as well as an excellent foundation in the biology of organisms, populations, and communities. This program may be of particular interest to students who wish to pursue graduate studies in any of these research areas. It also provides superb training for students interested in health-related professions (medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, physical therapy, nursing, pharmacy, optometry, etc.) or careers incorporating biology (psychology, sociobiology, forestry, wildlife conservation, environmental and resource management, law, etc.).

The department's broad range of experts includes behaviorists, ecologists, evolutionary biologists, geneticists, morphologists, paleontologists, physiologists, and systematists. 

Course of Study Overview

Students majoring in Integrative Biology choose one of two emphases: Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology (Emphasis 1) or Integrative Human Biology (Emphasis 2). The lower division requirements are the same for all IB students, regardless of the emphasis. The upper division requirements differ slightly for the two emphases, but all students take lecture and lab or field lab classes from IB's three groups: Evolution and Genetics; Ecology, Behavior, and Biodiversity; Structure, Function, and Human Health. For detailed information, please see the Major Requirements tab.

Declaring the Major

In order to declare Integrative Biology as a major, students must have completed certain prerequisites. For information regarding these courses, please see the Major Requirements tab. Students must have the following minimum grade point averages (GPA) to declare: 2.0 average overall, 2.0 average for all major requirements (lower and upper division combined), 2.0 average for all upper division major requirements. All declaring students must meet with a staff adviser and a faculty adviser as part of the declaration process.

At the time of declaration, students must have completed:

One year of calculus, either MATH 1A  and MATH 1B or MATH 10A and MATH 10B
CHEM 1A and CHEM 1AL
CHEM 3A
Either BIOLOGY 1A and BIOLOGY 1AL or BIOLOGY 1B

AND be enrolled in or have completed:

Either CHEM 3B or the second biology course (see above) and receive an average grade or better on the midterm exam
Either INTEGBI 77A or INTEGBI 77B

For transfer students, it is recommended that lower division courses be completed before arriving at Berkeley. All declaring students must be able to complete the major requirements in a timely manner.

Please see the department's website for detailed instructions to declare the IB major.

Honors Program

Students with minimum grade point averages (GPA) of 3.3 overall and in the major are encouraged to participate in the honors program. Interested students must identify an appropriate faculty sponsor who agrees to advise them on an original research project and enroll in two consecutive semesters of the honors thesis course (INTEGBI H196A and INTEGBI H196B). Honors students must present the results of their work in the form of a written honors thesis and a poster presentation at Cal Day. In order to graduate with honors, students must maintain the minimum required GPAs.

Minor Program

There is no minor program in Integrative Biology.

Student Learning GoalsLearning Goals for the Major

Describe the principles of evolution and genetics that underlie all biology.
Demonstrate a broad and integrated understanding of species origins, biological and organismal diversity, how to characterize, understand and protect this diversity, and interactions with the environment.
Demonstrate a fundamental understanding of the relationships between structure and function in animal (human) health.
Describe the basic principles of scientific inquiry and the importance of scientific study in integrative biology.
Illustrate the process of data collection, statistical analysis, and graphing including basic principles of experimental and sampling design.
Critically evaluate data, develop hypotheses, and interpret biological experiments.
Communicate effectively in the oral and written presentation of scientific results.
