School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Business Administration
Major: Business Administration


About the Program
Bachelor of Science (BS)

Students who earn a Bachelor of Science degree from the Haas School of Business Undergraduate Program possess the knowledge and technical skills necessary to understand the modern business world, to achieve the highest levels of success in their professional careers, and to prepare for subsequent graduate work. Coursework is fully integrated with the University's liberal arts curriculum, resulting in graduates who are able to draw upon their knowledge of the arts and sciences as well as business in their endeavors.

Admission to the Major

The highly competitive Haas Undergraduate Program offers a BS in Business Administration. Students interested in applying can choose one of the following pathways:

Global Management Program (GMP)
The selective Global Management Program blends rigorous business and general education with broad cultural understanding, preparing students to lead in financial services, communications, social sector solutions, foreign affairs, management consulting, and more.

Study in the four-year program begins in the summer with orientation and courses at UC Berkeley and includes the Berkeley Global Edge experience as a mandatory component—completed in fall of freshman year.

The program is only open to freshmen during the UC application period. 

For further information, please see the GMP web site.

Management, Entrepreneurship & Technology (M.E.T.)

The selective Management, Entrepreneurship, & Technology program at the Haas School of Business and the College of Engineering at Berkeley is a fully integrated, two-degree program. In four years, students earn a full Bachelor of Science degree in Business from Berkeley Haas and choice of a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences (EECS), Industrial Engineering & Operations Research (IEOR), Mechanical Engineering (ME), Bioengineering (BioE), or Civil Engineering (CE) from Berkeley Engineering.

The program is only open to freshmen during the UC application period. 

For further information, please see the M.E.T. website.

Transfer and Continuing UC Berkeley

The Haas Undergraduate Program accepts applicants from both transfer and continuing UC Berkeley students. Before applying to the major, visit the website which contains complete information concerning academic qualifications for admission with details about prerequisites and degree requirements. Because there are many more applicants than spaces available, completion of the prerequisites does not guarantee admission.

Minor Program

There is no minor program in Business Administration.

VISIT SCHOOL WEBSITE
