School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Bioengineering
Major: Bioengineering

About the Program
Bachelor of Science (BS)

Rated one of the top 10 Bioengineering undergraduate programs in the country, Bioengineering at Berkeley is a multidisciplinary major intended for academically strong students who excel in the physical sciences, mathematics, and biology. Coursework provides a strong foundation in engineering and the biological sciences, with the freedom to explore a variety of topics and specialize in advanced areas of research. All students benefit from intensive group design work, either through a senior capstone project or through independent research in faculty laboratories. The major features small, specialized upper division courses, and direct interaction with faculty. 

The stimulating environment of Berkeley offers a wealth of opportunity for learning, research, service, community involvement, and provides dedicated students the knowledge and skills to become the next leaders in bioengineering.

Course of Study Overview

The department offers one Bioengineering major, with several concentrations. For detailed descriptions of these concentrations, please see the department's website.

Biomedical Devices
Biomedical Imaging
Cell & Tissue Engineering
Synthetic & Computational Biology
Admission to the Major

Prospective undergraduates of the College of Engineering will apply for admission to a specific program in the college. For further information, please see the College of Engineering's website.

Admission to engineering via a Change of College application for current UC Berkeley students is not guaranteed. For further information regarding a Change of College to Engineering, please see the college's website.

Minor Program

The department offers a minor in Bioengineering that is open to all students who are not majoring in bioengineering and who have completed the necessary prerequisites for the minor. For further information regarding the prerequisites, please see the Minor Requirements tab on this page.

Joint Major

The Department of Bioengineering also offers a joint major with the Department of Materials Science and Engineering, for students who have an interest in the field of biomaterials. For further information regarding this program, please see the Bioengineering/Materials Science and Engineering joint major page in this Guide.

Student Learning GoalsMission

Since our founding in 1998, the BioE faculty have been working to create an integrated, comprehensive program. Much thought has been put into the question, “What does every bioengineer need to know?” The faculty have been engaged in considerable dialogue over the years about what needs to be included, in what order, and how to do so in a reasonable time frame. Balancing depth with breadth has been the key challenge, and we have reached a point where the pieces have come together to form a coherent bioengineering discipline.

Learning Goals for the Major

Describe the fundamental principles and methods of engineering.
Understand the physical, chemical, and mathematical basis of biology.
Appreciate the different scales of biological systems.
Apply the physical sciences and mathematics in an engineering approach to biological systems.
Effectively communicate scientific and engineering data and ideas, both orally and in writing.
Demonstrate the values of cooperation, teamwork, social responsibility, and lifelong learning necessary for success in the field.
Design a bioengineering solution to a problem of technical, scientific. or societal importance.
Demonstrate advanced knowledge in a specialized field of bioengineering.
