School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: English
Major: English

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The major in English is designed to introduce students to the history of literature written in English, to acquaint them with a variety of historical periods and geographical and cultural regions of English language and writing, to create an awareness of methods and theories of literary and cultural analysis, and to provide continued training in critical writing.

Entry-level Writing Requirement

Students must have fulfilled the Entry Level Writing Requirement before taking any course in the Department of English. For further information, see the information contained in the Undergraduate Education section of this Guide.

Declaring the Major

Before declaring the major, students must have completed the Reading and Composition requirement of the College of Letters and Science, two declaration requirements, and have completed at least 30 units. For further information on major requirements, please see the Major Requirements tab on this page.

Honors Program

ENGLISH H195A-ENGLISH H195B is a two-semester course, graded IP at the end of the first semester. Honors in English cannot be granted without the successful completion of this course. Students who take ENGLISH H195A-ENGLISH H195B may choose to waive their ENGLISH 190 requirement. ENGLISH H195A is organized as a course in literary criticism working toward the formation of a thesis topic. ENGLISH H195B will include regular meetings with the thesis adviser plus small group meetings with the H195 instructor. During the second semester, each student will write an honors thesis of 40-60 pages. Completion of the thesis is required for a passing grade in the course. Students with an overall GPA of 3.51 or higher and a GPA of 3.65 or higher in courses taken at Berkeley for the English major are eligible to apply. Those accepted must enroll in ENGLISH H195A for the fall semester of their senior year. There may be more than one section offered per semester.

Minor Program

Students may register for the English minor once they have declared another major and completed one upper division course in the English department.  At that time, students should fill out a Minor Registration Card to be kept on file in the Department of English Office. After completing the five courses or during their final semester at UC Berkeley, students should complete the Completion of the L&S Minor petition, have it reviewed by their major adviser and turn it in the English department.

Student Learning GoalsMission
The study of literature is not about canonical books or established facts, but about a process of interpretation and analysis, a process that begins in the classroom and develops over a lifetime. Upon completion of a BA degree in English, students should have well-developed writing and research skills as well as the ability to assess and appreciate language and literature in both professional and personal realms.
Learning Goals for the Major

Identify historical periods of literature in English ( US, Britain, and Anglophone).
Recognize and understand a variety of genres and modes of writing (the novel, poetic forms, short fiction, autobiography, etc.).
Become conversant with key literary terms and theories.
Develop an understanding of literature in interdisciplinary and multicultural contexts.

Skills

Demonstrate the ability to give a close reading or explication of a text.
Develop the ability to interpret and analyze literary texts and to articulate that in both writing and speaking.
Demonstrate an understanding of the philosophical, cultural, social, and historical influences on the creation of literary art.
Formulate a well-organized, well-supported argument.
Develop research skills in the library and online.
Demonstrate the ability to write clear critical essays, based on close reading of primary texts and secondary sources.
Observe ethical and precise citation practices.
For some, write well in creative modes: fiction, non-fiction, poetry.
