School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: African American Studies
Major: African American Studies

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The undergraduate degree program in African American Studies exposes students to the social, political, and cultural history of African-descended people in the modern world. While its primary focus is on the United States, the program’s conceptual framework places African Americans within a broader global, diasporic dialogue about the evolving function of race in history as well as in the contemporary moment. With its interdisciplinary strengths in history, culture, and social and political institutions, the major provides students with skills in research, criticism, and writing that our graduates have taken to a variety of professional paths, including teaching, government and policy work, employment in mass media, professional schools (law, medicine, business), and graduate study in multiple fields.

Declaring the Major

Completion of, or enrollment in, the three following courses is required in order to declare the major: AFRICAM 4A, AFRICAM 5A, and AFRICAM 5B. For details regarding how to declare the major, please see the department's website.

Honors Program

To be eligible for admission to the honors program, a student must have completed at least two semesters at UC Berkeley and have attained senior standing with a GPA of 3.3 or higher in all University work, as well as a 3.5 GPA or higher in the African American Studies major. Students in the program are required to take the AFRICAM 195 senior capstone course to be completed in the fall semester of their senior year and must complete the AFRICAM 100 and AFRICAM 101 prerequisites for AFRICAM 195 (to be taken prior to or concurrently with AFRICAM 195).  Students must receive a minimum of a B or above in AFRICAM 195 to enroll in AFRICAM H195 (Honors Thesis) the following semester culminating in the completion of a senior honors thesis.

Minor Program

The Department of African American American Studies offers an undergraduate minor in African American Studies. To apply for the minor, students must submit the departmental minor application once they have decided to minor in the program. The form may be obtained from 660 Social Sciences Building or online.  After completion of the minor requirements, students must submit a Completion of L&S Minor Program form, which may be obtained either at 660 Social Sciences Building or online. The Completion of the L&S Minor Program form should be submitted to the department undergraduate adviser the semester the student plans to graduate.  All minors must be declared no later than one semester before a student's Expected Graduation Term (EGT).  Please see the undergraduate adviser for advising while pursuing the minor program.

Student Learning GoalsMission
The African American Studies Department has a mission of developing the theoretical and analytical frameworks for the study of African Americans, Africans, and the African diaspora. We particularly bring together a wide range of scholars to anchor our interdisciplinary methods and projects. In addition to theoretical and analytical frameworks, we focus on problem-solving in relation to social and community organizations and institutions.
Learning Goals for the Major

Introduce students to the study of African American culture through the humanities by examining the production and social function of literature, music, visual arts, and performance. Explore the unique role that African American culture has had in defining and responding to larger constructs of American culture.
Trace the history of Africa from the earliest times (or prehistory) to the early modern period. Examine various aspects of precolonial African life and emphasize cultural and demographic themes. Equip students with the intellectual tools for intelligently discussing African history in both academic and nonacademic settings.
Gain a critical awareness about twentieth-century Africa and give due attention to postcolonial social, political, and economic processes in the general context of Africans' attempts to remake their world in the postcolonial era.
Examine the history (employment, migration, family life, culture, social institutions, and protest traditions) of African Americans since 1865. Acquire particular attention to the interplay between race, class, and gender.
Examine the political, social, and intellectual origins of the discipline and assess the disciplinary and institutional status of African American studies.
Acquire a range of research methods as they are applied to the study of African American communities with the main focus on qualitative methods.
Obtain familiarity with basic canon texts in African American studies.
Gain advanced knowledge of a particular area of specialization (either interdisciplinary or disciplinary).
For honors students, successful completion of an undergraduate thesis to demonstrate research, analytical, and theoretical skills related to an area of specialization.

Skills

Demonstrate clear writing and formulate persuasive arguments in the form of research papers and essays.
Development and improvement of critical thinking and analytical skills.
Demonstrable competence in theoretical and research methodological issues either from an interdisciplinary or disciplinary approach.
Demonstrable knowledge and understanding of course reading and lecture materials.
Use and develop analytical approaches to critical issues associated with the African diaspora.
Ability to analyze literature, visual culture, music, social, and political institutions critically.
Ability to conduct primary or secondary research in the field.
