School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Environmental Earth Science
Major: Environmental Earth Science

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The environmental earth science major is designed to provide students with a broad background in the earth sciences with an emphasis on environmental sciences. Interrelationships between physical, biological, and chemical processes at Earth's surface will be emphasized. The major focuses broadly on the natural sciences by primarily using earth science as a base for expanding outward depending upon students' interests by incorporating courses in biology, hydrology, hazardous waste management, ecology, and natural resources. The program is designed to provide background for graduate study in environmental science, preparation for work within government agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency, Bureau of Land Management, United States Geological Survey or consulting firms, or broader involvement in land use planning, business, policy, law or management.

Declaring the Major

The department strongly encourages students to see the student services advisor as early as possible. Students are accepted into the major with a C average or better. There are a number of scholarships and research opportunities as well as other benefits available to declared majors.

Honors Program

Students in the honors program must fulfill the following additional requirements: (1) maintain a GPA of at least 3.3 in all courses in the major, and an overall GPA of at least 3.3 in the University; and (2) carry out an individual research or study project, involving at least 3 units of EPS H195. The project is chosen in consultation with a departmental advisor, and the written report is judged by the student's research supervisor and a departmental adviser.

Minor Program

For information regarding the requirements, please see the Minor Requirements tab. Program planning and confirmation should be done with the undergraduate student services adviser and the environmental earth science faculty adviser.

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of Earth and Planetary Science

Climate Science (Minor only)

Atmospheric Science (Major and Minor)
Geology (Major and Minor)
Geophysics (Major and Minor)
Marine Science (Major and Minor)
Planetary Science (Major and Minor)

Student Learning GoalsMission
The goal of the earth and planetary sciences (EPS) BA degree is to provide students with a broad and sound education that provides general and specialized knowledge and is intellectually challenging and stimulating. Upon completion of the degree students are ready to enter graduate school at top-ranking institutions (about half of them choose this path), find employment in the profession (geological and environmental engineering and consulting are major opportunities), continue in public education as teachers, or use their background as a sound basis for a new career such as in public policy, law or medical sciences.
Learning Goals for the Major
EPS majors acquire knowledge through course work, laboratory training (expertise in experimental techniques), primary field research, library research, and computer applications, with oral presentations and written reports required in many of our classes.
The undergraduate program provides strong technical training for those who wish to pursue professional careers in the earth, environmental and planetary sciences, as well as training in analytical, creative and critical thinking and communication that serves well those who choose paths in new fields.
The environmental earth science track focuses broadly on the natural sciences, using earth science as a base to expand outward. This track can accommodate the student's interest by incorporating classes in biology, hydrology, hazardous waste management, ecology, and natural resources. Interrelationships are key to this course of study, with an emphasis on how the physical, biological, and chemical processes at the earth's surface affect each other.
This track is excellent preparation for graduate study in environmental science, but it also provides a strong foundation for work within governmental agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency, Bureau of Land Management, United States Geological Survey or consulting firms, or broader involvement in land use planning, business, policy, law or management. This is a great way to obtain a good science foundation for students who are interested in teaching science in elementary or secondary education.
