School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Civil Engineering
Major: Civil Engineering

About the Program
Bachelor of Science (BS)

The Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering's (CEE) undergraduate program offers opportunities for rigorous academic learning, fellowship, hands-on experience, and leadership. Classes are relatively small, so students get to know both the faculty and fellow students.

The program in civil and environmental engineering, which is top-ranked nationally, provides students with a strong fundamental background in engineering science, design, and practice. Students learn to solve societal problems—in California, the United States, and the world—such as:

Improving civil infrastructure
Protecting resources
Mitigating hazards
Creating efficient and sustainable civil systems

CEE's four-year curriculum leads to an ABET-accredited Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in Civil Engineering. Undergraduates at Berkeley have opportunities for professional interactions and community service. CEE has active student chapters of the American Society of Civil Engineers and the national honor society of Chi Epsilon as well as seven competition teams.

Areas of Emphasis

Students with a specific interest within civil engineering may choose to emphasize one of the following areas: engineering and project management; environmental engineering; geosystems; structural engineering, mechanics and materials; or transportation engineering. See suggestions for elective courses and the capstone design project.

Selection of an area of emphasis is optional. A BS in Civil Engineering is awarded whether or not a student follows the broad and general program or chooses an area of emphasis.

Accreditation

The BS program in Civil Engineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of the ABET, Inc.

Admission to the Major

Prospective undergraduates to the College of Engineering will apply for admission to a specific program in the college. For further information, see the College of Engineering's website.

Admission to Engineering via a Change of College application for current UC Berkeley students is highly unlikely and very competitive as there are few (if any) spaces that open in the college each year to students admitted to other colleges at UC Berkeley. For further information regarding a Change of College to Engineering, see the college's website.

Minor Programs

CEE does not offer a minor in Civil Engineering. Instead, the department offers the following specialized minors:
Environmental Engineering
GeoSystems
Structural Engineering

Student Learning GoalsMission
The Civil Engineering undergraduate program educates engineering leaders who will contribute to solving societal problems by improving the civil infrastructure, resource protection, natural hazard mitigation, and the efficient and sustainable functioning of engineered and natural systems in California, the United States, and the world. These objectives are achieved by:

Educating students with fundamental mathematical, scientific, and engineering knowledge to have a significant and positive long-term impact on the field of civil and environmental engineering.
Inspiring students and preparing them for successful professional careers, for further studies in high-quality graduate programs in engineering or other professional fields, and for a lifetime of learning.
Emphasizing the importance of professional and personal ethics, business and management leadership, and service to society.

Learning Goals for the Major

Ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering.
Ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data.
Ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs.
Ability to function on multidisciplinary teams.
Ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.
Understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.
Ability to communicate effectively.
Understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global and societal context.
Recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.
Knowledge of contemporary issues.
Ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.
