School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Geography
Major: Geography

About the Program

All human activity takes place on a geographic stage of great diversity and constant transformation. For more than a century, the Geography Department at Berkeley has been a leading center of scholarship about earth’s landscapes and human relationships to the environment. Our inquiries encompass a wide range of topics, from the economies and cultures of cities and built landscapes, to tropical climates and the flow of polar ice sheets. We combine rigorous empirical work with deeply conceptual theoretical analyses, always recognizing the importance of both spatial processes and accumulated histories. We use geographic analyses to illuminate the abiding problems of the modern world.

The Geography Department provides a broad-ranging perspective on humans as inhabitants and transformers of the face of the earth. The search for this kind of understanding involves thorough study of (a) the interlocking systems of the natural environment (climate, landforms, oceans, biota) and the evaluation of natural resources; (b) those diverse historical, cultural, social, economic, and political structures and processes which affect the location and spatial organization of population groups and their activities; and (c) significant geographical units, whether described as cities, regions, nations, states or landscapes, where integrated interpretation can be attempted, and a variety of problems thereby better understood.

As geographic theory and research has expanded their horizons over the past quarter-century, three research focuses have emerged to define geography at Berkeley: 

Earth System Science (a.k.a. Physical Geography)

This branch of geography focuses on the study of the interconnected components of our environment—the atmosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere, cryosphere, and biosphere—and how they interact to produce an integrated whole. It utilizes the fundamental disciplines of mathematics, physics, chemistry, and biology and applies them in the context of human activities and landscapes to understand the Earth, at scales ranging from single watersheds to the entire globe.

The research of our Earth Systems Science faculty epitomizes this interdisciplinary and global approach, and with expertise in biogeochemistry, biogeography, climate dynamics and climate change, geomorphology, glaciology, hydrology, and terrestrial ecology. Our research spans all corners of the world—from the swamps of the Everglades to the tundra of Alaska, from the ocean-atmosphere systems of the tropical Pacific to the vast ice sheets of Antarctica.

Economy, Culture and Society (a.k.a. Human Geography)

Human geography is a social science distinguished by its attention to the relation of humanity to the earth, in two regards. The first concerns the interaction of people with nature, including the extraction of natural resources, the environmental impact of people and their activities, and the effects of natural forces on society. The second concerns the spatial organization of societies at all scales from the local to the global (and from minutes to millennia) and the production of place, territory, and landscape by human imagination and activity.

Our Economy, Culture and Society faculty and graduate students work all around the world and explore an enormous range of topics: forest and range utilization in North America, urban development in China, agrarian change and resource extraction in Africa, conflict and human rights in Latin America, and much more. We examine borders and migration, conservation and development, globalization and governance while attending closely to the roles of race, gender, and class and of science, technology, and economy in shaping the world around us.

Geospatial Representation and Analysis

Advances in digital technologies have revolutionized how scholars, governments, businesses, and non-profit organizations collect, store, analyze and represent information about space, place, flows and locations. Even as the use of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) has become ubiquitous, it has been superseded for research purposes by advances in spatial analysis, simulation modeling, remote sensing, web-based mapping, and geo-visualization. These technologies apply to the study of biophysical and social systems alike, and they are beginning to show potential to erode the practical and pedagogical obstacles that have historically separated quantitative and qualitative methods, Human and Physical Geography. Our faculty use them to model global climate and coastal sediment dynamics, gentrification, segregation, transit and public health. We encourage students to use these tools critically and creatively to answer pressing questions about the contemporary world. 

Bachelor of Arts in Geography

The undergraduate major in geography is unusually broad and diverse, including the study of cultural, economic, political, historical, biophysical, urban and regional geography as well as cartography, quantitative methods, Geographical Information Systems (GIS), remote sensing and fieldwork. Backgrounds in the natural and social sciences, history, and statistical methods may be useful to the geography major, with the mix and emphasis depending on the student's particular interests. Completing a major in geography requires the satisfactory completion of three lower division courses and eight upper division courses. Lower division requirements ensure that all students gain a broad understanding of the discipline, while upper division requirements are structured to allow students to specialize in the areas of their greatest interest.

Geography students are expected to have diverse interests and independent thought. The department welcomes students from a variety of backgrounds, including those with professional experience who wish to deepen their education. Students are encouraged to roam freely through the curriculum and to follow their inspiration where it leads while working in tandem with faculty advisers. 

Student Learning GoalsLearning Goals for the Major

Spatial, holistic thinking at the intersections of society, space, and nature

Phenomena in place: Explain the spatial dimensions (location, place, landscape, region, and territory) of human life and the global environment—how human and earth science phenomena “take their place” on the surface of the earth.
Earth systems: Comprehend how the Earth functions as a complex system of interacting components and how this system applies to and is affected by humanity.
Scales of space and time: Understand processes operating at different spatial and temporal scales in the earth system and in human histories.
Nature and society: Recognize natural resource flows through human systems and identify social constructions of nature and vulnerabilities to natural disasters.
Interdisciplinarity: Combine insights from the natural sciences, social sciences, and humanities to better understand the problems of the increasingly interconnected and ecologically fragile world.


Addressing diversity in both human and physical geography

Peoples and places: Discuss, interpret, and explain differences of wealth, power, health, and well-being between and within societies, and the processes that create these patterns.
Physical processes: Discuss, interpret, and explain the diversity of—and the processes responsible for—the landforms, climates, and ecosystems that constitute our planet’s physical landscapes.
Reading landscapes: Deduce questions and hypotheses through clues in material landscapes.


Analysis and application for students who choose the Economy, Culture, and Society track

Role of Space: Understand the function of boundaries, territories, places, networks, and other spatial forms in the workings of human societies.
Power and landscapes: Understand the projection, protection, and contestation of power through the production of ideas, cultures, empires, and spatial forms.
Roles of cities: Grasp the roles and forms of cities as records and motors of modern life, and the interactions of urban areas with hinterlands and global networks.
Food systems: Compare and contrast agrarian and industrial food supply systems around the world.
Society-environment interactions: Understand the mutual influences and ramifications of biophysical and social processes in the dynamics of societies at scales from the local to the global.


Analysis and application for students who choose the Earth Systems Science track

Earth system science: Analyze interconnected environmental systems with process-based geophysical, geochemical, and biological sciences in the context of current social environmental problems.
Modeling: Construct models of the earth as a system of interconnected components, highlighting forcings and feedbacks.
Experiments: Formulate and apply scientific hypotheses and devise tests for them.
Science and society: Analyze and evaluate the role of science in shaping social forces, and being shaped by them.


Application of basic skills in research, knowledge of literature, analysis, and communication

Write clearly: Demonstrate ability to focus and elaborate on chosen topics.
Read critically: Critically analyze and assess arguments in professional journals, public media, and advocacy literature.
Empirical plus theoretical: Produce work with robust empirical research (that locates, interprets, and puts together relevant and reliable sources of information) as well as intellectual and theoretical rigor.
Use of mapping: Understand the production, interpretation, and use of mapping in all its forms and scales.
Applying quantitative skills: Apply basic quantitative skills such as statistics, algebra, and interpreting graphs.
Analytical ability: Demonstrate analytical ability: including the ability to identify questions, differentiate descriptions from explanations, make connections between empirical observations and arguments, and differentiate between competing explanations of a given phenomenon.


Lifetime skills

Continuing concern: Show continuing concern, curiosity, and zeal for geography and for applying geographical understanding.
Representing geography: Represent the usefulness of geography and geographical points of view to—depending on the circumstances—prospective employers, educators, policy makers, resource managers, developers, engineers, the public, and acquaintances.
