School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Atmospheric Science
Major: Atmospheric Science

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The Atmospheric Science major explores the fundamental natural processes controlling atmospheric composition, circulation dynamics, and climate. Understanding how these processes have changed in the past and may change in the future are among the greatest intellectual and technological challenges of our time. Topics covered will include the physics of climate variability and climate change, changes in stratospheric ozone, coupling of atmospheric chemistry and climate, changes in the oxidation capacity of the troposphere, smog, and the impacts of atmosphere-biosphere exchange on atmospheric composition.

Declaring the Major

The department strongly encourages students to see the student services advisor as early as possible. Students should take Math 53 and Math 54 before declaring the major. Students are accepted into the major with a C average or better. There are a number of scholarships and research opportunities as well as other benefits available to declared majors.

Honors Program

Students in the honors program must fulfill the following additional requirements:

Maintain a GPA of at least 3.3 in all courses in the major, and an overall GPA of at least 3.3 in the University.
Carry out an individual research or study project, involving at least three units of EPS H195. The project is chosen in consultation with a departmental advisor, and a written report is judged by the student's research supervisor and a departmental adviser.
Minor Program

For information regarding the requirements, please see the Minor Requirements tab. Program planning and confirmation should be done with the undergraduate student services adviser and the Atmospheric Science faculty adviser.

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of Earth and Planetary Science

Climate Science (Minor only)

Environmental Earth Science (Major and Minor)
Geology (Major and Minor)
Geophysics (Major and Minor)
Marine Science (Major and Minor)
Planetary Science (Major and Minor)


 

Student Learning GoalsMission
The goal of the Earth and Planetary Science (EPS) BA degree is to provide students with a broad and sound education, that provides general and specialized knowledge and is intellectually challenging and stimulating. Upon completion of the degree students are ready to enter graduate school at top-ranking institutions (about half of them choose this path), find employment in the profession (geological and environmental engineering and consulting are major opportunities), continue in public education as teachers, or use their background as a sound basis for a new career such as in public policy, law, or medical sciences.
Learning Goals for the Major
EPS majors acquire knowledge through course work, laboratory training (expertise in experimental techniques), primary field research, library research, and computer applications, with oral presentations and written reports required in many of our classes.
The undergraduate program provides strong technical training for those who wish to pursue professional careers in the earth, environmental and planetary sciences, as well as training in analytical, creative and critical thinking and communication that serves well those who choose paths in new fields.
The Atmospheric Science track provides students with a strong foundation in the physical sciences as well as an outstanding introduction to atmospheric dynamics and evolution, atmospheric chemistry and biogeochemistry. Students gain a rigorous, quantitative, and predictive (in addition to descriptive) knowledge of the earth system with an emphasis on atmospheric processes.
