School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Chemical Biology
Major: Chemical Biology

About the Program
Bachelor of Science (BS)

The Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in Chemical Biology is intended for students who are interested in careers as professional chemists, or in the biological sciences including the biomedical, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical industries. Chemical Biology offers a solid background in chemistry, so that students understand the chemical principles of biological functions. In addition to an introductory set of math and physics courses and a broad selection of chemistry courses similar to those required for the chemistry major, students pursuing the chemical biology major take courses in general and cell biology, biochemistry, biological macromolecular synthesis, and bioinorganic chemistry. There is a strong emphasis on organic chemistry, quantitative thermodynamics, and kinetics necessary for understanding the logic of biological systems.

Admission to the Major

For information on admission to the major, please see the College of Chemistry Admissions page in this Guide.

Minor Program

There is no minor program in Chemical Biology.

Student Learning GoalsMission
Each Chemistry graduate will have completed an integrated, rigorous program which includes foundational course work in chemistry and in-depth course work in chemistry or chemistry-related fields. The ACS-certified degree further emphasizes laboratory experience and the development of professional skills. Advanced coursework and educational activities outside the traditional classroom, such as independent research, provide students the opportunity to conduct individual research projects or participate as a member of a research team. Many undergraduate students also benefit from taking our graduate courses in synthetic and physical chemistry.
At graduation, Chemistry majors will have a set of fundamental competencies that are knowledge-based, performance/skills-based, and effective.
Learning Goals for the Major
All our graduates will be able to:

Master a broad set of chemical knowledge concerning the fundamentals in the basic areas of the discipline (organic, inorganic, analytical, physical, and biological chemistry).
Solve problems competently by identifying the essential parts of a problem and formulating a strategy for solving the problem. They will be able to rationally estimate the solution to a problem, apply appropriate techniques to arrive at a solution, test the correctness of the solution, and interpret their results.
Use computers in data acquisition and processing and use available software as a tool in data analysis.
Employ modern library search tools to locate and retrieve scientific information about a topic, chemical, chemical technique, or an issue relating to chemistry.
Successfully pursue their career objectives in advanced education in professional and/or graduate schools, in a scientific career in government or industry, in a teaching career in the school systems, or in a related career following graduation.

Skills
All our graduates will demonstrate the ability to:

Understand the objective of their chemical experiments, properly carry out the experiments, and appropriately record and analyze the results.
Use standard laboratory equipment, modern instrumentation, and classical techniques to carry out experiments.
Know and follow the proper procedures and regulations for safe handling and use of chemicals.
Communicate the concepts and results of their laboratory experiments through effective writing and oral communication skills.
