School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Conservation and Resource Studies
Major: Conservation and Resource Studies

About the Program
Bachelor of Science (BS)

The Conservation and Resource Studies (CRS) major is a self-designed interdisciplinary program for students interested in environmental issues and areas of interaction among natural resources, population, energy, technology, societal institutions, and cultural values. Students draw on the course offerings of the entire campus and appropriate community resources in the development of individual programs of study.

The major’s orientation is toward flexibility and an individualized educational approach to understanding the structure and dynamic functions of complex environmental systems within our society and biosphere. It encourages interaction among students, faculty, and community. The major’s offerings are designed to help each student formulate an area of interest, but are not in any way meant to limit the range of options available. Sample topics include environmental justice and education, sustainable development of world populations, energy and environmental policy, conservation and culture, global environmental politics, and ecological restoration and policy.

Graduates are well-prepared for careers in fields such as environmental consulting, education, health, law, community, urban or regional planning, and other related areas of environmentalism in public agencies, nonprofit conservation organizations, and private companies. Graduates are well qualified for a variety of graduate programs, including law school.

Admission to the Major

Advice on admission for freshmen and transfer students can be found on the Rausser College of Natural Resources Admissions Guide website or Prospective Student website. Freshman students may apply directly to the major, or they may select the Rausser College's undeclared option and declare the major by the end of their fourth semester. Transfer students may apply directly to the major through the UC application.

Information for current Berkeley students who would like to declare the major after admission, including information on a change of major or change of college, please see Chapter 6 of the Rausser College of Natural Resources Undergraduate Student Handbook.

Honors Program

Students with a GPA of 3.6 or higher may enroll in Rausser College's honors program (H196) once they have reached upper division standing. To fulfill the program requirements, students design, conduct, and report on an individual research project working with a faculty sponsor. For further information on registering for the honors symposium and on honors requirements, please see Rausser College's website.

Minor Program

The department offers a minor in Conservation and Resource Studies. For information regarding how to declare the minor, please contact the department.

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management

Environmental Sciences (Major only)
Ecosystem Management and Forestry (Major and Minor)
Molecular Environmental Biology (Major only)
Society and Environment (Major only)

Student Learning GoalsMission
Conservation and Resource Studies (CRS) is an interdisciplinary major designed for students interested in environmental issues and interactions among disciplines related to natural resources, population, energy, technology, societal in situations, and cultural values. Because CRS students draw on the course offerings of the entire campus, they have the flexibility to incorporate any combination of courses in the social sciences, biological sciences, physical sciences, or humanities to address complex environmental problems. Students may also draw upon appropriate community resources in the development of individual programs of study. Despite the flexibility and breadth, all CRS curricula share a demonstrable commitment to gaining a truly interdisciplinary education.
Learning Goals for the Major

Understand environmental issues and interactions among disciplines related to natural resources, population, energy, technology, societal institutions, and cultural values:

Understand the ways in which natural resources are central to the continued welfare of human society and the non-human world.
Critically analyze the ways in which human population growth affects natural resources and human well-being and survival.
Recognize the ways in which energy growth and energy systems affect the long-term welfare of both the earth and its human inhabitants.
Evaluate the ways in which industrial, biological, and appropriate technologies and technological scales impact human society and life on Earth.
Understand the interactions among social, political, and cultural institutions and values and how they affect the conservation of natural resources.


Comprehend the different ways in which the social sciences, biological sciences, physical sciences, and humanities address complex environmental problems:

Recognize the frameworks and methods used by the social sciences in approaching and resolving environmental problems.
Grasp the methods and analytical concepts used in the biological and physical sciences in solving environmental problems.
Be able to explain the role and importance of the humanities in resolving environmental problems.
Identify the aim of one’s own education as truly interdisciplinary and select the courses that will allow its achievement.


Have the ability to draw upon appropriate community resources in the development of approaches to environmental problem-solving:

Know how to identify and find local organizations that are working to improve the environment.
Develop the skills that will assess the value of community efforts and methods regarding conservation and environmental issues.
Use access to community groups to introduce ideas that may be applicable to the particular problems with which they are engaged.
Advance an argument for a policy or regulatory action on any issue in the environmental field with a technical or scientific component.


Be able to address diversity in both human society and the environment:

Explain the historical and cultural origins of diversity within human societies.
Understand how power, prejudice, and poverty can create disparities within society and how these disparities might be overcome.
Assess the importance of biotic diversity for conservation and human welfare.
Understand how biological diversity and cultural diversity can interact in ways that can conserve life on the planet.
Learn to live with biodiversity and cultural diversity in all aspects of life.



Skills

Apply basic skills in research, knowledge of literature, analysis, and communication:

Write clearly, demonstrating the ability to focus and elaborate on chosen topics.
Read critically and assess arguments in professional, public, and advocacy literature.
Have strong communication skills (written and oral) through presentations, facilitation of discussion, and written assignments.
Produce written analyses and reports based on literature, scientific and field studies, and community resources.
Have strong library and internet research skills in order to conduct research on environmental topics potentially relevant to work in future careers.
Have advocacy writing skills in order to communicate scientific ideas and environmental perspectives to a broader public through a media outlet.
Be able to work cooperatively in team settings to connect with others and prepare for global citizenship.


Lifetime skills:

Show concern for the natural environment and its biotic and abiotic components.
Be able to engage in the conservation of natural resources as a responsible citizen of the community and the world.
Know how to obtain the information that will lead to informed choices and decisions about the impact and importance of natural resources in maintaining a viable planet for future generations.
