School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Cognitive Science
Major: Cognitive Science

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

Cognitive Science is the cross-disciplinary study of the structure and processes of human cognition and their computational simulation or modeling. This interdisciplinary program is designed to give students an understanding of questions dealing with human cognition, such as concept formation, visual perception, the acquisition and processing of natural language, and human reasoning and problem-solving.

The program draws on relevant courses found within the fields of anthropology, biology, computer science, education, linguistics, philosophy, and psychology, as well as specially designed lower and upper division courses in cognitive science. 

Declaring the Major

For prerequisites required before declaring the major, please see the Major Requirements tab. Students interested in the major should consult the Cognitive Science website and then schedule an appointment with the student academic advisor.  The Cognitive Science office is located in 140 Stephens Hall.

Honors Program

Students who meet the grade point thresholds overall and in the upper division major courses may apply for admission to the honors program in their senior year. The awarding of honors is contingent upon submission of a thesis of high quality, based upon independent study with a member of the Cognitive Science faculty and marked by satisfactory completion of the required research and writing. Evaluation of the thesis is the responsibility of, first, the faculty supervisor and then of the second reader, both secured by the student. It is the responsibility of the supervisor and the second reader to decide (1) whether the thesis is of honors quality and (2) if of honors quality, which level of honors is to be assigned: Honors, High Honors, or Highest Honors.  Please see the Cognitive Science program's Honors page for additional details.

VISIT PROGRAM WEBSITE
