School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Chinese Language
Major: Asian Studies: China

About the Program
Bachelor of Arts (BA)

The Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures offers an undergraduate major in Chinese Language. The course of study is designed to train students in the humanistic investigation of major East Asian traditions. This is achieved through a curriculum that centers on the acquisition of the modern and classical forms of the language, the informed and engaged reading of a wide variety of East Asian texts in their historical and cultural contexts, and the development of effective writing skills and critical thinking. Students are introduced to the vast and variegated literary, artistic, philosophical, and cultural traditions of East Asia and their transformations in modernity. Course offerings situate the study of East Asia in a global context and expose students to a variety of disciplinary and comparative approaches.

The major provides training in speaking, reading, and writing the relevant modern languages, as well as a basic familiarity with one or more of the language's earlier forms. Students complete the major by selecting from a broad range of courses in literature, popular cultures, philosophy, and linguistics, both in translation and in the original languages.

Students who major in the program have a variety of backgrounds. Many students are double majors in a broad spectrum of other departments and programs, including anthropology, applied mathematics, architecture, art history, art practice, Asian studies, business, comparative literature, computer science, economics, English, linguistics, mass communications, molecular and cell biology, political economy, political science, psychology, rhetoric, and theater arts.

Declaring the Major

Students interested in majoring in the program should consult with the staff undergraduate adviser regarding major requirements, transfer credits, and other academic concerns. Students are admitted to the major only after successful completion (with a grade of C or higher) of the prerequisites to the major; for information regarding the prerequisites, please see the Major Requirements tab on this page. Students are advised to begin preparation for the major as soon as possible in order to satisfy University, college, and department requirements. All students should be familiar with the college requirements for graduation with a Bachelor of Arts degree, as explained in the "Earning Your Degree," a bulletin available from the College of Letters & Science, 206 Evans Hall.

Honors Program

A senior undergraduate student who has completed 12 units of upper division language courses in the department, and who has a GPA of 3.5 in those courses and an overall average of 3.0 may apply for admission to the honors program. If accepted, the student will enroll in an honors course (any H195 course) for two consecutive semesters leading to the completion of an honors thesis, which must be submitted at least two weeks before the end of the semester in which the student expects to graduate. While enrolled in the honors program, the student will undertake independent advanced study under the guidance of the student's honors thesis adviser. Upon completion of the program, a faculty committee will determine the degree of honors to be awarded (honors, high honors, highest honors), taking into consideration both the quality of the thesis and overall performance in the department. Honors will not be granted to a student who does not achieve a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.3 in all undergraduate work in the University by the time of graduation.

Minor

The Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures offers an undergraduate minor in Chinese Language. To declare the minor, please visit 3414 Dwinelle Hall.

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of East Asian Languages and Cultures

East Asian Religion, Thought, and Culture (Major only)
Japanese Language (Major and Minor)
Korean Language (Minor only)
Tibetan (Minor only)
