School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Chemical Engineering
Major: Chemical Engineering

About the Program
Bachelor of Science (BS)

The College of Chemistry offers a major in Chemical Engineering leading to the Bachelor of Science (BS) degree, through the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering. The program equips the student for professional work in development, design, and operation of chemical processes and of process equipment. Students with high scholastic attainment are well prepared to enter graduate programs. The curriculum is accredited by ABET.

Admission to the Major

For information on admission to the major, please see the College of Chemistry Admissions tab in this Guide.

Minor Program

The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering offers an undergraduate minor in Chemical Engineering. For information regarding how to declare the minor, please contact the department. Please be sure to consult with your college or school for information on rules regarding overlap of courses between majors and minors.

Joint Major Programs with the College of Engineering

Chemical Engineering/Materials Science and Engineering: BS
Chemical Engineering/Nuclear Engineering: BS

Student Learning GoalsMission
The mission of the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering is:

To educate people for careers of leadership and innovation in chemical engineering and related fields.
To expand the base of engineering knowledge through original research and by developing technology to serve the needs of society.
To benefit the public through service to industry, government, and the engineering profession.

Fulfillment of this mission is achieved in part by the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering's accredited undergraduate degree program in chemical engineering. The undergraduate curriculum comprises both a technical curriculum and breadth requirements.
The goals of chemical engineering breadth requirements are to teach the arts of writing clearly and persuasively, to develop the skills to read carefully and evaluate evidence effectively, and to instill an awareness of humanity in historical and social contexts. The Berkeley American Cultures requirement affirms the value of diversity in acquiring knowledge.
The technical curriculum in chemical engineering seeks to provide students with a broad education emphasizing an excellent foundation in scientific and engineering fundamentals.
Learning Goals for the Major
1-An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complx engineering problems by applying the principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
2-An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
3-An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
4-An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context
5-An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
6-An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
7-An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies
