School Name: UC Berkeley
Department: Ecosystem Management and Forestry
Major: Ecosystem Management and Forestry

About the Program

The Ecosystem Management and Forestry major has replaced the Forestry and Natural Resources major in the Rausser College of Natural Resources.

Bachelor of Science (BS) 

Ecosystem Management and Forestry (EMF)  focuses on the conservation and restoration of the earth's natural resources through hands-on study of the ecology, stewardship, and management of forest, woodland, and grassland ecosystems.

The program offers two specializations to choose from, and if the student chooses a specialization in Forestry, they can qualify to take the Registered Professional Forester's licensing exam in California.

The Forestry specialization provides students with the ecological, quantitative, and social foundation to be the managers and leaders in the management of forests and forest resources.  The Forestry specialization is accredited by the Society of American Foresters and provides four years of qualifying education or professional experience for licensing as a professional forester in California. The goals of the Forestry specialization are very closely associated with the educational requirements of the forestry profession and prepare our students for a variety of careers in forestry or closely related natural resource fields.
The Natural Resource Management specialization provides students with greater flexibility to explore subjects in ecology, physical environment, monitoring and measurement, and management and policy.  Students can choose to concentrate their studies in water management, ecology, climates change or design their own concentration based on interest.

Students in the program, regardless of concentration, have ample opportunity to acquire interdisciplinary skills in the ecology, stewardship, and management of ecosystems such as forests, woodlands, and grasslands. Within the program, students can choose to emphasize topics such as wildlife biology, water policy, fire science, ecosystem restoration, environmental justice, remote sensing and GIS, and rural sociology.

EMF graduates are well-prepared for graduate school and careers in environmental consulting, public agencies, non-profit conservation organizations, and private companies. Students also have the option of preparing for professional careers in forestry, wildlife, and range management.

Admission to the Major

Advice on admission for freshmen and transfer students can be found on the Rausser College Admissions Guide page or the Rausser College Prospective Student website. Freshman students may apply directly to the major, or they may select the Rausser College of Natural Resource's undeclared option and declare the major by the end of their fourth semester. Transfer students may apply directly to the major through the UC application.

Information for current Berkeley students who would like to declare the major after admission, including information on a change of major or change of college, please see chapter 6 of the Rausser College of Natural Resources Undergraduate Student Handbook.

Honors Program

Students with a GPA of 3.6 or higher may enroll in the Rausser College honors program (H196) once they have reached upper division standing. To fulfill the program requirements, students design, conduct, and report on an individual research project working with a faculty sponsor. For further information about registration for the honors symposium and the honors requirements, please see the Rausser College of Natural Resources website.

Minor Program

A minor in Forestry is available for students who are interested in learning about forestry and renewable resource management as an adjunct to their chosen fields. Students in many diverse majors such as business administration, integrative biology, and civil engineering may find this minor complementary to their professional career goals. For information regarding how to declare the minor, please contact the department.

Other Majors and Minors Offered by the Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management:

Conservation and Resource Studies (Major and Minor)

Environmental Sciences (Major only)

Molecular Environmental Biology (Major only)

Society and Environment (Major only)

Student Learning GoalsMission
The Ecosystem Management and Forestry (EMF) major at the University of California at Berkeley is designed to train tomorrow’s leaders in ecosystem science, policy, and management with an emphasis on the ecology, stewardship, and management of forest, woodland, and grassland ecosystems.  The program combines a foundation in the relevant natural and social sciences with explicit hands-on learning opportunities. Students completing this major will be prepared to engage policymakers and the public on the role and value of nature in our rapidly changing world.
The EMF major includes both a Forestry concentration that is accredited by the Society of American Foresters (SAF) and Natural Resource Management (NRM) concentration (SAF accreditation pending)
The Forestry concentration provides four years of qualifying education or professional experience for licensing as a professional forester in California. The goals of the Professional Forestry specialization are very closely associated with the educational requirements of the forestry profession and prepare our students for careers in forestry or closely related natural resource fields. When students graduate the EMF major with a Forestry concentration from UC Berkeley, they will have the basic knowledge and skills to assess and manage forest resources.  
The Natural Resource Management concentration trains students how to solve ecosystem problems that require interdisciplinary skills. Students can choose to emphasize such topics as wildlife biology, water policy, fire science, ecosystem restoration, environmental justice, remote sensing, and GIS, or rural sociology. Students who graduate the EMF major with an NRM concentration are well-positioned tack current environmental challenges (climate change, fire, sudden oak death, exurban development, drought, and novel ecosystems) while working industry, government or environmental organizations. 
Learning Goals for the Major
Forestry Concentration
Knowledge and skills are based on the four major subject areas required by the Society of American Foresters. These four subject areas and the basic competencies expected of students are as follows.



Ecology and Biology


Competencies must be documented as an:


Understanding of taxonomy and ability to identify forest species, their distribution, and associated habitat requirements.


Understanding of soil properties and processes, hydrology, water quality, and watershed functions.


Understanding of ecological concepts and principles including the structure and function of ecosystems, plant and animal communities, competition, diversity, population dynamics, succession, disturbance, and nutrient cycling.


Ability to make ecosystem, forest, and stand assessments.


Understanding of plant and animal physiology and the effects of climate, fire, pollutants, moisture, nutrients, genetics, insects and diseases on ecosystem health and productivity.






Measurement of Forest and Natural Resources


Competencies must be documented as an:


Ability to identify and measure land areas and conduct spatial analysis.


Ability to design and implement comprehensive inventories that meet specific objectives using appropriate sampling methods and units of measurement.


Ability to analyze inventory data and project ecosystem conditions.






Management of Forest and Natural Resources


Competencies must be documented as an:


Ability to develop and apply silvicultural and restoration prescriptions appropriate to management objectives including methods of establishing and influencing the composition, growth, and quality of forests and wildlands and understand the impacts of those prescriptions.


Ability to analyze the economic, environmental, and social consequences of resource management strategies and decisions.


Ability to develop management plans with specific multiple objectives and constraints.


Understanding of the valuation procedures, market forces, processing systems, transportation and harvesting activities that translate human demands for timber-based and other consumable natural resource products into the availability of those products.


Understanding of the valuation procedures, market, and non-market forces that avail humans the opportunities to enjoy non-consumptive products and services of forests and wildlands.


Understanding of the administration, ownership, and organization of forest and resource management enterprises.






Resource Policy, Economics, and Administration


Competencies must be documented as an:


Understanding of resource policy and the processes by which it is developed.


Understanding of how federal, state, and local laws and regulations govern the practice of forestry and resource management.


Understanding of professional ethics and recognition of the responsibility to adhere to ethical standards in decision-making on behalf of clients and the public.


Ability to understand the integration of technical, financial, human resources, and legal aspects of public and private enterprises. 






Natural Resource Management Concentration
Knowledge and skills are based on the four major subject areas required by the Society of American Foresters. These four subject areas and the basic competencies expected of students are as follows:


Fundamental Knowledge of Ecosystem Components and Ecosystem Functioning


Competencies must be documented as an:


Knowledge of the elements of botany, zoology, entomology, plant pathology, plant physiology, and genetics essential to an understanding of higher‐order ecological processes.


An understanding of taxonomy and systematics and an ability to identify dominant and/or ecologically significant components of the flora and fauna of ecosystems at regional to continental scales.


Knowledge of the important life history characteristics of dominant and special‐concern species.


Knowledge of soil properties and processes, hydrology, water quality, and watershed functions.


An understanding of ecological concepts and principles including the structure and function of ecosystems, plant and animal communities, competition, diversity, population dynamics, succession, disturbance, and nutrient cycling; 


An understanding of the effects of climate, fire, pollutants, moisture, nutrients, insects and diseases, and other environmental factors on ecosystem health and functioning at local and landscape scales.






Measurement and Assessment of Ecosystem Components, Properties, and Functioning


Competencies must be documented as an:


Ability to identify, measure, and map land areas and conduct spatial analyses.


Ability to design and implement accurate inventories and assessments of dominant or critical ecosystem components and services, ecosystem properties, and indicators of ecosystem health, including trees and other vegetation, vertebrate fauna, biodiversity, soil and water resources, timber, and recreational opportunities.


Ability to summarize and statistically analyze inventory and assessment data, evaluate the status of important ecosystem components, describe and interpret interactions and relationships, and project future ecosystem conditions.






Identification and Evaluation of Management Objectives


Competencies must be documented as an:


Understanding of the valuation procedures, including market and nonmarket forces, that apply to ecosystem goods and services such as timber, water, recreational opportunities, carbon and nutrient cycling, and plant and animal biodiversity.


Ability to explain the relationships between demand, costs of production, and availability of those goods and services.


Ability to describe procedures for measuring stakeholder values and managing conflicts in the evaluation and establishment of management objectives.


Ability to evaluate and understand the economic, ecological, and social trade‐offs of alternative land uses and ecosystem management decisions at local, regional, and global scales.


Knowledge and understanding of environmental policy as applied to ecosystems and the processes by which it is developed.






Management Planning, Practice, and Implementation


Competencies must be documented as an:


Ability to develop and apply prescriptions for manipulating the composition, structure, and function of ecosystems to achieve management objectives, and to understand the impacts of those prescriptions at local and landscape scales.


Ability to identify and control or mitigate specific threats to ecosystems such as insects, diseases, fire, pollutant stressors, and invasive plants or animals.


Knowledge of the methods and procedures unique to the production of ecosystem goods and services such as timber, recreation, water, and wildlife populations.


Ability to describe the process of adaptive management and its application to the management of ecosystems.


Understanding of how federal, state, and local laws and regulations apply to management practice.


Ability to develop management plans with specific objectives and constraints that are responsive to ownership or stakeholder goals and demonstrate clear and feasible linkages between current condition and desired future condition.


Understanding of professional ethics, including the SAF Code, and recognition of the responsibility to adhere to ethical standards in the practice of natural resource management on behalf of clients and the public.


Ability to integrate the knowledge, understanding, and skills from prior coursework in the development of collaborative solutions to realistic management problems.

Majoring in Ecosystem Management and Forestry
Ecosystem Management and Forestry (EMF) is replacing the Forestry and Natural Resources major in the Rausser College of Natural Resources

Students admitted Fall 2017 can follow the Forestry and Natural Resources curriculum in the 17-18 guide but freshman will be expected to declare Forestry and Natural Resources by the end of their sophomore year (before the end of Spring 2020) to be eligible for the old program.  Incoming students in Fall 2018 will be expected to follow the new requirements Ecosystem Management and Forestry.  

Overview
Ecosystem Management and Forestry (EMF)  focuses on the conservation and restoration of the earth's natural resources through hands-on study of the ecology, stewardship, and management of forest, woodland, and grassland ecosystems. The program offers two specializations to choose from, and if the student chooses a specialization in Forestry, they can qualify to take the Registered Professional Forester's licensing exam in California. Topics studied include wildlife and conservation biology, ecosystem restoration, rangeland management, water policy, fire science, GIS and remote sensing, environmental justice, and rural sociology. Students can participate in an 8-week summer field program in the Sierra Nevada. Offered by the Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management (ESPM).

What will I study?
Students in the EMF major select between two specializations:

 The Forestry specialization provides students with the ecological, quantitative, and social foundation to be the managers and leaders in the management of forests and forest resources.  The Forestry specialization is accredited by the Society of American Foresters and provides four years of qualifying education or professional experience for licensing as a professional forester in California. The goals of the Forestry specialization are very closely associated with the educational requirements of the forestry profession and prepare our students for a variety of  careers in forestry or closely related natural resource fields.

The Natural Resource Management specialization provides students with greater flexibility to explore subjects in ecology, physical environment, monitoring and measurement, and management and policy.  Students can choose to concentrate their studies in water management, ecology, climates change or design their own concentration based on interest.

Students in the program, regardless of concentration, have ample opportunity to acquire interdisciplinary skills in the ecology, stewardship, and management of ecosystems such as forests, woodlands, and grasslands. Within the program, students can choose to emphasize topics such as wildlife biology, water policy, fire science, ecosystem restoration, environmental justice, remote sensing and GIS, and rural sociology.

What can I do with this major?
EMF provides specific analytical tools needed for graduate school or virtually any type of career in natural resources. Graduates can pursue careers in

environmental consulting
public agencies
non-profit conservation organizations
private companies
professional forestry
wildlife biology
range management
Some may tackle the planning and implementation of forest management projects, including fuel reduction, timber harvest, reforestation, urban forestry, and prescribed burning.

Others focus their professional work in areas such as wildfire, fire, water, wetlands, restoration, vegetation management, soil/erosion, cultural resources, policy, and the human aspects of natural resources. Much of natural resource management today is about working with, communicating with, and engaging the public and landowners.

The program itself has a longstanding history, so our graduates often find themselves sought after for employment by alumni established in both the public and private sectors.

Alumni
The Cal Alumni Foresters (CAF) is the alumni association for the 100 year old forestry program at UC Berkeley. CAF helps bring alumni working in forestry and the diverse fields related to resource and environmental management together to support ongoing discussion and camaraderie. Alumni of all ages are bonded by memories of classes in Mulford Hall, bean feeds put on by the forestry club and summers spent in Meadow Valley learning about Sierra Nevada ecology and timber cruising.

Forestry has changed over the last hundred years since Berkeley’s program began, but this discipline is still very important as an ever growing local and global population place increasing pressure on California’s and our world’s forests. Therefore, CAF supports current Cal forestry students by providing scholarships, mentoring and introducing the new crop of managers to the Society of American Foresters (SAF) at the national convention each fall. We hope that these efforts will help ensure that Berkeley will continue to train excellent foresters and resource managers for our future state and world.
