Founded in 1764, Brown is a leading research university home to world-renowned faculty, and also an innovative educational institution where the curiosity, creativity and intellectual joy of students drives academic excellence.

The spirit of the undergraduate Open Curriculum infuses every aspect of the University. Brown is a place where rigorous scholarship, complex problem-solving and service to the public good are defined by intense collaboration, intellectual discovery and working in ways that transcend traditional boundaries.

Providence, Rhode Island — Brown's home for more than two and a half centuries — is a vibrant place to live, work and study, a stimulating hub for innovation, and a city rich in cultural diversity. 
Solutions to critical, complex problems
Brown students and faculty are tackling the nation’s opioid crisis. Planning the next Mars landing site. Uncovering the locations of ancient civilizations. Advising world leaders on new political models. Exploring new frontiers in multimedia arts. In each of their intellectual endeavors, our scholars and researchers are uncommonly driven by the belief that their work must — and will — have an impact in their communities, in society and the world.

We are a learning community grounded in a commitment of respect for the diversity of viewpoints that is fundamentally essential to intellectual discovery. We encourage the right of all individuals to express ideas and perspectives — and we embrace the value of vigorous debate in pursuit of knowledge.
Innovative, student-centered learning
Brown’s academic excellence is rooted in a student-centered model of learning. The Open Curriculum is a flexible but rigorous approach to education that pushes students to be creative thinkers, intellectual risk-takers and entrepreneurial problem-solvers. Brown undergraduates enjoy the freedom to study what they choose and the flexibility to discover what they love. Students leave Brown prepared to thrive as independent, innovative leaders, no matter what path they choose.

Brown’s graduate and professional programs offer intensive learning and research experiences that respect and develop each scholar’s interests and ideas within their intended specialty — equipping them with the tools they need to become the next generation of leaders in their fields.
Scholarship that transcends boundaries
Brown brings people together in creative, unexpected ways. By transcending boundaries between fields of study, scholars are better equipped to create opportunities, address challenges and explore areas of inquiry ripe for discovery. This intensely collaborative culture infuses all of the University’s endeavors.

These are just a few illustrations of how Brown convenes the diverse range of perspectives, insights and expertise that today’s complex scientific and societal challenges demand:

With researchers from departments ranging from neurology and neurosurgery to engineering, computer science and more, the Carney Institute for Brain Science is deciphering the brain and pursuing breakthroughs for some of the world’s most devastating diseases, such as ALS and Alzheimer’s.

Economists, historians, political scientists and sociologists at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs inform each other’s efforts to craft policy solutions that can change systems and societies for the better.

Exploring the Red Planet. Unearthing ancient cities. Confronting the opioid crisis. Grappling with legacies of slavery. Searching for dark matter.

Brown is a leading research university, where stellar faculty and student researchers deploy deep content knowledge to generate new discoveries on those issues and many more. They generate scientific breakthroughs, shed light on social and cultural phenomena and conduct the basic research that sets the stage for future discovery.

What sets their work apart? Collectively, Brown's researchers are driven by the idea that their work will have a positive impact in the world.

At the Institute at Brown for Environment and Society, scholars in the sciences, social sciences and humanities work together to confront the causes and impacts of climate change.

Brown is a leading research university, where stellar faculty and student researchers deploy deep content knowledge to generate new discoveries on those issues and many more. What sets their work apart? Collectively, Brown's researchers are driven by the idea that their work will have a positive impact in the world.

Brown’s Mission.
The mission of Brown University is to serve the community, the nation and the world by discovering, communicating and preserving knowledge and understanding in a spirit of free inquiry, and by educating and preparing students to discharge the offices of life with usefulness and reputation. We do this through a partnership of students and teachers in a unified community known as a university-college.


Founded in 1764, Brown is a leading Ivy League research university where students and faculty collaborate to address the defining challenges of a complex and changing world.


The mission of Brown University is to serve the community, the nation and the world by discovering, communicating and preserving knowledge and understanding in a spirit of free inquiry, and by educating and preparing students to discharge the offices of life with usefulness and reputation. We do this through a partnership of students and teachers in a unified community known as a university-college.

Brown's senior leaders guide the University's work toward a set of ambitious goals to reach new levels of academic excellence through integrative research and innovative education in service to the community, nation and world.


Brown President Christina PaxsonChristina Paxson became Brown’s 19th president in 2012. In February 2017, the Corporation of Brown University appointed her to a second five-year term as president, extending her tenure through June 30, 2022. As chief executive officer, President Paxson reports to the Corporation, oversees all divisions of Brown’s administration, and is chief ambassador for the University. Nationally recognized as a leader in higher education and an accomplished scholar, she is a professor of economics and public policy. 


The President’s Cabinet includes the provost, senior deans, executive and senior vice presidents, vice presidents for research, campus life, equity and diversity, finance, human resources, and communications, and other senior leaders of the University.



The Corporation of Brown University is Brown’s primary governing body, with its authority set forth in the charter of the University granted by the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in 1764. It consists of a 12-member Board of Fellows and a 42-member Board of Trustees, meets in person three times per year, and makes policy decisions in areas including academic affairs, advancement, budget and finance, and campus life. 

The story of Brown is also the story of Providence and Rhode Island. The University has been intertwined with this diverse and vibrant city since the founding of the republic.

Brown's home for more than two and a half centuries, Providence is a vibrant place to live, work and study, a stimulating hub for innovation, and a city rich in cultural diversity. 

With undergraduate education centered in the historic College Hill neighborhood and a growing presence in the Jewelry District — a flourishing hub for science, technology, health, medicine and entrepreneurship — Brown is deeply committed to meaningful community engagement. Brown fosters innovative community partnerships and facilitates strong relationships with neighbors, nonprofit organizations, schools, civic organizations and businesses. 

Engaged Learning
Brown promotes numerous opportunities for our students, faculty and staff to work with community members in Providence to strengthen the educational, economic and social assets of our city, state and region. For students, this means access to internships and hands-on learning that blends academic work with real-world experiences. And it means building partnerships in the community through social innovation, entrepreneurship and collaborative startup ventures.


Brown has a longtime commitment to spurring economic development and fueling growth in the city it calls home. Brown has invested $225 million in the Jewelry District, catalyzing a vibrant ecosystem of academics, commerce and creative transformation. And the University has active partnerships with Providence schools, supporting thousands of students in urban districts.
